on. It may have to be a very functional packaging. Well, that's different than just an aesthetic package that you want to look beautiful. So why would we take those same questions even as a starting point? Maybe we're doing ourselves a disservice. So I mean, for me, I think that research design and staying curious and staying open to, well, what if we asked it that way is a huge part of the battle. And so I don't necessarily think, certainly, I think there's an old phrase of the research that's just the bottom drawer research, which is just the research that ends up in the bottom drawer of somebody's desk because it was nice to have, and maybe you learned a tidbit or two, but it's so forgettable and it's so not useful. (00:37:22): It is the 86% of people find bagels are filling, and you go like, okay, and then it just sort of works its way to the bottom of your desk. That is what I am trying to avoid all the time is the kind of research that lands in that drawer and is drawer fodder and not the kind of research that people go back and back and back to. My biggest compliment is when clients come back and say, it's been a year since I have done my research with you, but I have it tucked in my binder that I take to every meeting because there's always something new there for me to find, right? And even though it was a very specific challenge when we asked these specific questions, part of this the way consumers think and feel and are motivated is evergreen as opposed to 86% of bagels are filling is not so evergreen. So I think the fact that these are living documents that help you understand your consumer, and when you have a question about your consumer, if you can come back to that living document, that's a real victory. I think that shows that that research was useful versus not. So what am I trying to do? I'm trying to make research really useful. I have seen, and I think unfortunately too much of it is really drawer fodder not that useful.", "token_estimate": 859, "speakers": ["Megan Averell"], "start_timestamp": "00:35:18", "end_timestamp": "00:35:18", "podcast_index": 101, "episode_name": "Ep. 101: Why Consumer Research is so Important | Megan Averell | The Insight Inn", "slug": "ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "guest_name": "Megan Averell", "guest_title": "Founder at the Insights Inn", "categories": ["brand", "strategy"], "short_description": "Megan Averell is the founder of the Insight Inn, a qualitative research and strategy firm, to bring people back into the heart of business decision-making.", "podcast_length": "1:08:00"}, {"id": "64374e4d-8072-4333-827b-a45b15e47afc", "episode_id": "6104b1ba-29fe-43f4-9df8-64c589412ee9", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c488b", "chunk_index": 16, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:38:34): So if folks are interested, I recommend you go check out Megan's LinkedIn because she's written a number of articles and posts about research fallacies, and we're going to get into a couple of 'em here today, but if we don't cover enough in today's conversation, go check out her LinkedIn. Because you talk a lot about different processes or methods to research that the process itself is ultimately flawed or it's done a poor way, then that gives you poor results. Could you give us your top two or three fallacies that you point to?", "token_estimate": 140, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:38:34", "end_timestamp": "00:38:34", "podcast_index": 101, "episode_name": "Ep. 101: Why Consumer Research is so Important | Megan Averell | The Insight Inn", "slug": "ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "guest_name": "Megan Averell", "guest_title": "Founder at the Insights Inn", "categories": ["brand", "strategy"], "short_description": "Megan Averell is the founder of the Insight Inn, a qualitative research and strategy firm, to bring people back into the heart of business decision-making.", "podcast_length": "1:08:00"}, {"id": "de42a734-f7ea-4aeb-a91f-cd4924ed2024", "episode_id": "6104b1ba-29fe-43f4-9df8-64c589412ee9", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c488b", "chunk_index": 17, "content": "Megan Averell (00:39:08): Yeah, and I mean there's so many and this and that list is growing every day. There's just little things about research design or process like you mentioned, that can just trip you up and get in the way of findings. Sometimes it's in the findings, in the collection of findings, but even sometimes in the way an organization onboards findings, there's all sorts of places where things can go off into left field or go off the rails and sort of leave that path where we're going to have a really good result. So one of them I had like to talk about is I think when people think of qualitative research, which is the majority of what I do, that they think of focus groups, and when they think of focus groups, their very next thought is focus group facilities. And that is just a terrible way to spend your research dollars, not just that. (00:39:56): It's a bummer of a place to be because it is, if you guys have ever done qualitative research and focus group facilities, they're just not places anybody wants to be. And I'm a big believer in the fact that we take our cues from environment and what is around us and atmosphere. And as marketers, we very much believe in that, or else we wouldn't put so much into our customer experiences and things like that. So why would we put people in sort of an overgrown dentist's office with a two-way mirror and assume that they're going to be natural and emotional and share of their selves in this environment that's incredibly stilted and muted. So that's just one thing with focus groups that I don't love. I could talk about the budget thing, but I see you nodding. I feel like you've had this experience.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:40:40): I have not had this experience, but I'm curious if you can elaborate on what a focus group facility looks like and why. I mean, you mentioned a two-way mirror. This sounds like an interrogation room.", "token_estimate": 477, "speakers": ["Megan Averell", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:39:08", "end_timestamp": "00:40:40", "podcast_index": 101, "episode_name": "Ep. 101: Why Consumer Research is so Important | Megan Averell | The Insight Inn", "slug": "ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "guest_name": "Megan Averell", "guest_title": "Founder at the Insights Inn", "categories": ["brand", "strategy"], "short_description": "Megan Averell is the founder of the Insight Inn, a qualitative research and strategy firm, to bring people back into the heart of business decision-making.", "podcast_length": "1:08:00"}, {"id": "30cd217c-8578-479a-81dc-c9a199fac57f", "episode_id": "6104b1ba-29fe-43f4-9df8-64c589412ee9", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c488b", "chunk_index": 18, "content": "Megan Averell (00:40:49): It is, right? So that's essentially what it is. And look, I mean there's a time and place for these, but for a long time it was like, okay, we put the consumers in basically what looks like a boardroom except much less nice and much less comfortable because these facilities are cheap. So they're trying to put in the most uncomfortable chairs possible. But here is just a regular conference table. There's usually a seat at the top of that table that the moderator sits in, and then the moderator's back gets to the two-way mirror, which means the consumers have to face toward the two-way mirror, but means they're looking in the mirror the whole time too. I mean, can you imagine running a focus group or being in a focus group and being asked to share your opinions and you're facing sort of a mirror image of yourself? (00:41:29): I think we can now a little bit with zoom, understand that sometimes that throws people off in and of itself. Sometimes that's not natural. It's not how you would normally have a conversation with a fellow human being unless you were a total narcissist. And also it is a situation where your environment really impacts your behavior. And so you're not going to feel like if you're at a bar and you're just chatting up a friend, you're going to reveal some stuff that you might not reveal sitting in a room that basically feels like a corporate office building. And very often they are. So speaking of other queues, we're actually asking people to go to a high rise building a lot of times or a corporate office park. They're parking, paying some exorbitant amount from parking in a parking lot, they're riding up some elevator. And like I said, it kind of ends up looking like a really beige, like a doctor's office, like a waiting room. (00:42:23): And it's like, well, that brings up a whole lot of feelings that are no good because it's the same furniture provider. I swear that's doing all of these spaces. And then we're asking people to give us their best. We're asking people to be open and comfortable and smart and receptive and share of things that we didn't necessarily even ask them about to really be that willing to open themselves. And that's not an environment where anyone feels like that. If anything else, you can kind of feel your s stink or clenching right now. It's like a doctor's office. No, stay away from me. I don't want to talk to you. So that environment is a real bummer. And so if hopefully that paints a picture, but if you all want to Google, you really haven't been inside a focus group facility. They are awful. And they have tried in recent years to update them, which is hilarious to me. (00:43:13): So now they'll have an exposed brick wall and then a two-way mirror and the same table that they've always had. And then sometimes, and this gets into the misappropriation of the budget that I talk about in my post on it, is that they'll actually be like, you can have a couch so that people can feel very natural. So we'll put a couch in the room, we're going to charge you $300 to put that couch in the room. And you're like, okay, this is a really crappy couch you got from Ikea that sits in your storage just down the hall and someone has to pick it up and walk it into this room and you're going to charge me $300 for that, and I'm not entirely sure why. Right? If you're hoping that that makes people slightly more engaged or more comfortable, they can pull their feet up. (00:43:57): They can actually kind of sit in a comfortable posture. Sometimes that's worth it to me as a researcher if I have to do it. But there's still that two-way mirror. There's still all of those uncomfortable waiting room features where they'll actually give them a clipboard a lot of times when they, oh, it drives me nuts. I could go on and on. But the bulk of this, and I think what we of don't think about, because we do oftentimes, oh no, it's another focus group facility. Nobody, not even the clients enjoy them. But there is also the money part that I just touched on where these places kind of make the majority of their money through really incidental details of what you do with your time there. If your client opens a bottle of seltzer, you'll get charged for that the way you do from a mini bar. (00:44:40): But in order to win the bid and look competitive, they basically just do these all as add-on costs. But what they do is they reduce the cost for recruitment and the cost for incentives. Recruitment, you're going to hear me use these words a bit. Recruitment is how much money and time it takes me to find the people I need to talk to. Incentives are what we pay them to show up and talk to this. And both of those things are really important. And I have found in my years of doing this that those actually really contribute more to quality of research than any other variable. How long am I going to spend finding someone is really about time, and that means I need to pay someone enough that they really spend time with that person talking to that person. Are they going to be a really good receptive, open quality respondent or are they just okay? (00:45:31): Do they just check the boxes? Well, if I don't get paid for my time enough, I'm going to take someone who checks all the boxes and go, there you go. But if I'm somebody who is really engaged and finding a great respondent and you've given them by paying them their value, the time to actually interview that person in a quality manner and get to the weak, not just the chaff, then your group, the person that you're bringing in to talk to you is going to be that much better. Then incentives. I think we need to value people. I think we need to value their time. This comes down to an old research method of just like, let's drive vendors on budget. I understand that that's a big budget line item, and it's very easy as a marketer to say, well, why are we spending so much money paying these people? (00:46:14): Shouldn't they be happy with a hundred bucks or 125 bucks for an hour? And it's like, well, that depends. It depends on who you're talking to. If you want to talk to someone who's a pretty busy professional, who's an dual income household and has kids and works at a professional job, then that's probably not a hundred bucks isn't enough for them to drive across town park in that expensive parking lot and come up and talk to you for an hour about all their thoughts and opinions, when actually they could make more money on their own just spending that same time doing their work task. Or they could enjoy themselves more than that a hundred dollars spending time with their family. So you have to make it worth it. And in order to do that, you actually have to overpay people. I'm a big believer in that. (00:46:58): So whereas I think focus group facilities take all their budget out and say, look how cheap I am. They're taking the budget out of what matters, the recruitment and the incentive, and then they're just tacking on so many additional charges from the time that you get there that your bill is actually very hefty by the time you leave. I think it's a total racket, and I wish that that practice would go out of form. So I did have some suggestions in these research fallacy Fridays, I try not to just do and dump on everything and then leave without offering a solution. So my solution for that one was look at community spaces, coffee shops, libraries, even if you have to something like a hotel ballroom or something, there's places that we can meet people that are more comfortable and don't nickel and dime the way that they do. (00:47:47): And then you take that same money you would've spent and you put that into hiring a better recruiter and getting more money to your respondents. Because I have seen it where if I get really good respondents, even just offering them an additional little bit of money, well actually make them open up more because it shows that you value their time so you can have the exact same person. It doesn't have to be a different person. You could have Mike, if Mike is getting paid $125 to be there, Mike's going to sit back in his chair a little bit and be like, alright, I'm going to do as much as I need to get through this and get my money so I could go. But if you pay Mike $250 for his time, he is like, oh crap, you're paying me two $50 for an hour. (00:48:28): I better really contribute. I've got to sit forward. I got to offer an opinion and I have to make this count. I mean, that's all subjective and subconscious. It happens several layers deep. It's not like people are actually going through this level of conscious processing, but a lot of times you can see the difference in their behavior. So after doing a little experimenting over the years myself, I have seen that when clients drive me down on that kind of thing, you can have that same respondent later in a different study two years down the line, but they're suddenly all that much more open and all that much more receptive.", "token_estimate": 2259, "speakers": ["Megan Averell"], "start_timestamp": "00:40:49", "end_timestamp": "00:40:49", "podcast_index": 101, "episode_name": "Ep. 101: Why Consumer Research is so Important | Megan Averell | The Insight Inn", "slug": "ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "guest_name": "Megan Averell", "guest_title": "Founder at the Insights Inn", "categories": ["brand", "strategy"], "short_description": "Megan Averell is the founder of the Insight Inn, a qualitative research and strategy firm, to bring people back into the heart of business decision-making.", "podcast_length": "1:08:00"}, {"id": "18d1f793-669b-4fb7-ae34-4e6d0d9d1908", "episode_id": "6104b1ba-29fe-43f4-9df8-64c589412ee9", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c488b", "chunk_index": 19, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:49:02): So these research facility groups, if I was trying to do research, I would hire one of these facilities and then I would kind of choose based on a menu of what I want the experience to look like, and do they provide the interviewer or are those things I get to choose?\n\nMegan Averell (00:49:20): They sometimes have relationships. So sometimes the reason that clients can use them and look, I get it, marketers are busy, even just to chase them up on getting research details finalized can be difficult. They're going and getting pulled in so many different directions that a lot of times they don't have time. They know what they need to know, but they don't have time to manage every detail. So a lot of times these facilities, I think market themselves as a one-stop shop. Yeah, come here and we can do your recruitment. We can do your incentives and we'll host your group. And sometimes, yes, they do actually have relationships with local moderators in the area who I don't think good all the time, but are folks that are there and available to take on a group. So if you were super busy, I could see that you would see value in that. (00:50:03): But I think your work product that you get out of it is going to be not even 10% of what you would just by going with someone who's independent and on their own and has these tried and true mechanisms in place and really thinks about research design, you could take that exact same amount of money and 10 x it as far as the return. And so that kind of thinking where it's like, oh my God, I understand it's so hard to think about all the different variables. And a lot of times clients are just like, I'm a marketer. I've got too much going on, do it all for me. And that's I think a lot of times where they thrive because they don't ask a lot of questions, not very curious. They're just like, give me the specs of who you need to find, and that's all you need to do. (00:50:44): And there's something attractive about that. I do understand why they persist, but I have worked in my own business now for seven years and I have done three projects inside a facility in that time only. And those were by absolute force where I kind of talked to the client about alternatives, offered them alternatives, and they've said no, but I've even gotten pharmaceutical executives and cellular executives to sit in coffee shop community rooms, right, with consumers right in the same room and listen to them. I think the other thing the two-way mirror does is that creates a bit of separation, doesn't it? I mean it quite physically makes the people in their zoo animals and the people on the back of the room, the smart people who hired the zoo animals to tell them what they wanted. And that sets up just, and again, this is all subconscious processing. (00:51:34): I don't think anyone actually thinks that, but it does set up a certain dynamic, doesn't it? And I'm always trying to be very careful about what those human dynamics are. Whereas if you're sitting in the room with someone, you have to listen to them. You can't be texting your boyfriend or your girlfriend or texting jokes to your colleagues about what that respondent is wearing, that sitting over there. You have to be fully engaged. And so the fact that I've gotten some who I would consider very traditional companies to get out of those traditional venues, I think speaks to the fact that it's actually, it's not too hard to persuade them you're spending your money in the wrong way and actually here's a way to get good. And they've all said, this is my first time doing this. When the very traditional companies do research in a non-traditional way, they'll say, wow, I got a lot out of this. I got a lot out of being there. First. I was scared about being in the room with people, but it actually worked out just fine. It's like, yeah, we can all just be humans. We can just be human beings having conversations.", "token_estimate": 989, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Megan Averell"], "start_timestamp": "00:49:02", "end_timestamp": "00:49:20", "podcast_index": 101, "episode_name": "Ep. 101: Why Consumer Research is so Important | Megan Averell | The Insight Inn", "slug": "ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "guest_name": "Megan Averell", "guest_title": "Founder at the Insights Inn", "categories": ["brand", "strategy"], "short_description": "Megan Averell is the founder of the Insight Inn, a qualitative research and strategy firm, to bring people back into the heart of business decision-making.", "podcast_length": "1:08:00"}, {"id": "cb375273-992f-47f9-9c4c-7f0c953786e3", "episode_id": "6104b1ba-29fe-43f4-9df8-64c589412ee9", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c488b", "chunk_index": 20, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:52:33): Yeah. Interesting. So what, what's fallacy number two?\n\nMegan Averell (00:52:39): Alright, so I think another one is that people overstuff their guides. So I think this is a sign in some ways that research isn't done very often at all. So when research is done, everyone in the organization, from operations to customer support to hr, to anyone who works in a different division might come to marketing and say, oh, hey, yeah, we had these questions. Also, could you just put those in? And a lot of times marketing is like, ah, well we haven't done research in a while, so could we get as many of these questions as humanly possible? I actually just worked with a client last week and they sent me a 10 page discussion guide for a 45 minute focus group, and that was single spaced. And I said to them, I counted everything up. And I said, okay, this is your wishlist of questions. (00:53:25): If I put everything in that we had here, that would equate to about 90 seconds per question. And that's not enough in qualitative because it's going to take me 20 seconds to get the question out of my mouth. So now we're down to a minute, they have a minute to answer, and then I've got to move them to the next. I'm sorry, I have to move you on. I'm sorry, I have to move you on. That is an auctioneer that is not a moderator. And especially in qualitative research, you have to give things space to breathe because people are not always aware of what motivates them. If I asked you why you bought your favorite toothpaste, you're probably going to have some first BLS reactions. Oh, well, it's something I've always used. It's something maybe my family used. I dunno. It's kind of got this flavor that I like and I didn't really, I tried this other flavor, but I didn't like it. (00:54:13): I like this. Cool, but that's not really why you're using it. That's just some of the what, so I need to sit with that and I need to help you sit with that. And because toothpaste is a low involvement choice that people don't think a lot about, I'm probably going to have to use some projective techniques now. We're probably going to have to get into like, well, what is it about this? What does this brand say to you? Let's use a projective technique to help us find that. Oh, it says I'm a smart shopper. Arm and hammer or whatever might be about cleanliness. And cleanliness is interesting to me as it relates to my toothpaste. Those are the things that take a little bit of time. So if I'm just saying, what is it about your toothpaste? And then I have to move on to something else, I'm not really getting much other than your first plus reaction. (00:54:53): And if I wanted your hot take, I would just go to the internet. There's plenty of hot takes about products and services on there that aren't very well thought through. So I could just scan people's social media comments or the people who are on the reviews of the products who've barely used it, and then they put like, oh, I've just started using this button. And you're like, well, this isn't really helpful. To me, that is the equivalent of the depth we're at when we ask that question off the bat, people are getting that first blush reaction. And so we need time. And oftentimes my favorite research studies are when clients come and they have two or three key questions in 45 minutes or an hour, because then I can really get in there and answer them as opposed to, I have to talk to these people that work in this job. (00:55:39): And I start out by asking them, what do you like about your job? What are the upsides? What are the downsides? Yeah, we're kind of easing them in, we're getting them into the conversation. No, we're actually taking time away from what you really want to know, which is at the back of this thing. So if we actually kind of just even look at the way we're going to talk about things, why do we have this assumption that we have to spend 10 or 15 minutes warming people up to a topic? Do we? They're professionals. They do this job for a living. We know what it is that they do, and unless this question is germane to the actual output we need, we're just wasting time. So how do we really key in on what those two or three or four topics really are that we really want to know? (00:56:19): And then how do we go deep? That's what qualitative is for. If you want the stuff, go do quant, which is fine. Don't get me wrong. There's a time and place for knowing, make this list of attributes that matter to you when you're buying toothpaste. But that's a quant study and that's easy to go find that way. But if I really want to unpack all of that, I need time. So I think the other thing, it just, and in my world, the way I spun that one out at the end as I always try to offer some nice solution. And for that one, it's okay, can we offer researchers just less? Can we offer them fewer objectives that are more buttoned down? But also I think it's maybe we need to do research more often. Cole, you mentioned upfront. Wow, it seems like this gets to a lot of the why of questions we have a lot of hypothesis about, but can't be sure of. (00:57:06): And it's like, yes, if we were doing it more regularly, I mean, I've worked with firms in the outdoor space and things like that, that'll be like, oh, it's been years since we've done research. And I'm thinking, my God, how many business decisions have you made on assumptions since then? So then, yeah, sure. When I get you, you're going to be like, oh, we need to ask about this thing we did three years ago because we have a whole different product line now and we haven't ever asked people about it, so we need to get that in. And you're like, well, that literally doesn't have any relation to what we're talking to people about, but we can fit it in if you need to. That's the kind of situation you don't necessarily want to be in. And the answer for that is an industry plugging one, which is do more research in general so you don't have to overpack yourself.", "token_estimate": 1507, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Megan Averell"], "start_timestamp": "00:52:33", "end_timestamp": "00:52:39", "podcast_index": 101, "episode_name": "Ep. 101: Why Consumer Research is so Important | Megan Averell | The Insight Inn", "slug": "ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "guest_name": "Megan Averell", "guest_title": "Founder at the Insights Inn", "categories": ["brand", "strategy"], "short_description": "Megan Averell is the founder of the Insight Inn, a qualitative research and strategy firm, to bring people back into the heart of business decision-making.", "podcast_length": "1:08:00"}, {"id": "0e97db1a-4f97-4f5c-a7af-298571373a4e", "episode_id": "6104b1ba-29fe-43f4-9df8-64c589412ee9", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c488b", "chunk_index": 21, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:57:46): Wow. I feel like this entire conversation is just chockfull of really fascinating pieces of information that could probably go on for another hour. But Megan, I'm curious to learn a little bit more about why you personally gravitate towards this. Are you a naturally curious person? Do you like to interview people? What about the field of research makes you want to be here?\n\nMegan Averell (00:58:09): Yeah, I think I often hear from folks in the industry that are, other researchers are like, yeah, I'm curious about people. But I also feel like I hear that from marketers a lot. I mean, I don't think people got into marketing so that they could push numbers around an Excel spreadsheet all day long. There is a fundamental truth I think that unites marketing and research, which is we kind of want to know what's driving people, what's up with that? We see things and our first reaction is what's up with that human behavior? It's the same thing that we get from psychologists and things like that too, but in that much more clinical sort of setting. So I think we share that. I don't think that's unique to research. I don't, but I think the intensity of that can be unique to research. I think you really do have to find someone, and if I was looking for a researcher personally, I'd be looking for someone who nerds out hardcore on those elements. It doesn't just say those nice things of like, yes, I really care what people think, but is committed to finding out and is committed to trying different things to get there. (00:59:17): I think a way I just woke up realized, oh my gosh, I want to be a researcher. But I do think the one thing that continually frustrated me that led me into research was that in marketing, we do sit at our desks for most of our day thinking about what people think, but we are not necessarily able to do that with knowledge of actual straight firsthand knowledge of what people think. And that's frustrating is like I've written a million personas in my life. I've written a bazillion customer journeys in my life, and I've written even more value propositions and things like that that have briefs that have a consumer blank in them. But the times I was able to talk to consumers in that 10 years were so fractional that at some point I realized this is made up and we are firmly in fantasy land and I can be very good at what I do and still be very wrong. (01:00:10): And I felt like that little dose of really well done research for me could have been the difference maker over that time and to getting from stuff that I thought was pointing in the right direction to getting to stuff that I knew was pointed in the right direction and was actually going to compel people. I mean, we are in sort of that business of resonance and being compelling. If you are saying stuff, it doesn't matter how factual it is. It doesn't matter if you're 20% better than your competitor. What matters is, is it resonant with them personally? Does it compel them to act? And of course, what we know and what I know as a researcher is that apathy is our biggest motivation. That's our biggest motivation. And so you're having to break through people's biggest motivation in order to get to those next level sets of motivations if you think about it, to get them to change behavior, to try your product or service. (01:01:04): So for me, it was the need I felt a need and a compelling need to know versus just making those assumptions. And now I still do freelance strategy work. I still do consultancy work because I want to keep that saw really sharp, and I want to continue to be someone who does research that can be implemented when I'm over on that side. I feel much better at my job now. I feel much better at the strategy role because I do know where consumers are at almost all the time. And that's a very different feeling than just being like, wow, I got to go to those focus groups one time a year. Or my client actually approved primary research where we got to go out and talk to people in one-on-ones one time a year ago, which is, it was just a glacial pace I felt like for talking to consumers and I couldn't live with that. There was just part of me, it was just like, I just need to bring, even if it's two focus groups, even if it's a minuscule amount of direction, I need to bring some direction to those assumptions, which they very often can be incredibly well, well-formed assumptions really well thought through. But there's still assumptions.", "token_estimate": 1130, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Megan Averell"], "start_timestamp": "00:57:46", "end_timestamp": "00:58:09", "podcast_index": 101, "episode_name": "Ep. 101: Why Consumer Research is so Important | Megan Averell | The Insight Inn", "slug": "ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "guest_name": "Megan Averell", "guest_title": "Founder at the Insights Inn", "categories": ["brand", "strategy"], "short_description": "Megan Averell is the founder of the Insight Inn, a qualitative research and strategy firm, to bring people back into the heart of business decision-making.", "podcast_length": "1:08:00"}, {"id": "5e471d87-31ef-457d-bc80-2a594bdf1fd7", "episode_id": "6104b1ba-29fe-43f4-9df8-64c589412ee9", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c488b", "chunk_index": 22, "content": "Cole Heilborn (01:02:12): Is there anything that we didn't cover today that you want to include? Anything that you want to make note of?\n\nMegan Averell (01:02:19): I think it's just a reminder, and I think a lot of my fallacy posts tend to be about the fact of consumers just thinking so differently than we do. So I think if I could leave everyone on the podcast with anything, it's just that we have these again, really well thought out hypothesis, and a lot of times consumers are basing their opinions on your brands about the most minuscule things you've never thought of. So in one of my articles, I talk about how consumers are often building their brand perceptions from the ground up, and we're building them from the top down. We're going, here's our premise, and then here's everything that falls neatly into beautiful boxes under that premise or pillars or whatever we want to call them. And meanwhile, consumers are just having tangible experiences and so much of what they believe about you actually can ladder quite highly based on a tangible experience. (01:03:09): So for example, consumers have told me that they listen to the ways employees interact with each other when they're on the job. So if I'm a consumer and I'm sitting in a waiting room, or I'm sitting at a checkout stand and I'm watching the way employees treat each other, treat one another, I'm forming impressions about the brand and the way that the brand either trains or treats its people. By the way, my employees are just having what they think might be a private exchange or conversation. And that can be indicative to them of like, well, I bet they're paying them really good wages. They seem really happy, they seem to really love their jobs. And it's like, well, that again, may not be true, but these are examples of the laddering mechanisms. Consumers build from really small, tangible experiences that a lot of times we do not think about. (01:03:55): But companies that do, there's oil change companies where if you go to the fast oil change, I don't know if you've had this experience where you hear them communicating with each other in a really crisp manner, right? Check three, check five, and then they're kind of working in tandem and as a team in a really tight manner. I've had consumers tell me that that feels phenomenal to them, and it's not technically a consumer touchpoint and something that's happening around them, but it's something their senses are observing, and then they're making some sometimes very flawed assumptions about companies and brand based on those. So I think if I could leave you with anything, and the reason I'm leaving you with that is because I do think it underscores the power of research, and especially qualitative research. If I'm in the car with that person going through that instant oil change and I'm physically sitting with them as a researcher and I'm able to hear them react in the moment to these things, then that could tell you that the way your employees are communicating with each other might be as important, if not more important than that thing you wrote on that beautiful piece of paper that's sitting on the deck, that's sitting in the corporate office that says what your brand is all about. (01:05:01): So I really think there is an inherent value, even for something silly or small or tangible, that can really lead them down the path of steering their entire thinking about who you guys are as an organization. Wow, there is so much power in going and finding those things out and being inexperiences with them. So yeah, that's just an example of how different their world is and how different their framing is on all of this. And I know we inherently know that. I know that we inherently get that, but when time is short and budget is short, it's just so much easier to go, okay, well, we've got that. We've got our documents in place, we know what we're doing. But those touch points, I have never, ever failed to bring a client something they didn't know. And that's the magic of it, is we all have these hypothesis, but I don't want to scare people when I tell them, it's never what you think. There's always something else going on there. We are just so flawed in our thinking as creatures and so messed up in our thinking that it's always something you never could have imagined because those mind frames are just night and day.", "token_estimate": 1099, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Megan Averell"], "start_timestamp": "01:02:12", "end_timestamp": "01:02:19", "podcast_index": 101, "episode_name": "Ep. 101: Why Consumer Research is so Important | Megan Averell | The Insight Inn", "slug": "ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-101-why-consumer-research-is-so-important-megan-averell-the-insight-inn", "guest_name": "Megan Averell", "guest_title": "Founder at the Insights Inn", "categories": ["brand", "strategy"], "short_description": "Megan Averell is the founder of the Insight Inn, a qualitative research and strategy firm, to bring people back into the heart of business decision-making.", "podcast_length": "1:08:00"}]
$jsonpayload$::jsonb) as t(id uuid, episode_id uuid, cms_item_id text, chunk_index integer, content text, token_estimate integer, speakers text[], start_timestamp text, end_timestamp text, podcast_index integer, episode_name text, slug text, web_url text, guest_name text, guest_title text, categories text[], short_description text, podcast_length text)
on conflict (id) do update set
  episode_id = excluded.episode_id, cms_item_id = excluded.cms_item_id, chunk_index = excluded.chunk_index, content = excluded.content, token_estimate = excluded.token_estimate, speakers = excluded.speakers, start_timestamp = excluded.start_timestamp, end_timestamp = excluded.end_timestamp, podcast_index = excluded.podcast_index, episode_name = excluded.episode_name, slug = excluded.slug, web_url = excluded.web_url, guest_name = excluded.guest_name, guest_title = excluded.guest_title, categories = excluded.categories, short_description = excluded.short_description, podcast_length = excluded.podcast_length;
