.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "84cdb6f8-68fa-418c-a23a-dfa71984fcad", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 7, "content": "Gary Boulanger (00:21:21): Soccer in the early seventies too, in the United States was very rare. So that gave me my first taste of maybe the unconventional, the eclectic. I remember vividly freshman year in high school where our history teacher was also the freshman football coach, and he did not like soccer players. He didn't really think we were athletes. I remember there vividly, right? (00:21:48): Not realizing that I think between Moto GB Formula One and soccer, they're the most physically demanding sports on the planet, but I digress. So I had this mindset of going for the unconventional. And when you start playing different sports, soccer, bicycle racing, cyclocross, all those things, which now everyone's aware of, a lot of people partake, it's no longer unconventional. It introduced me to books, movies, people, places, things that kind of open up my eyes beyond my perch in Allway, Wisconsin, outside of Green Bay. And because of my love for soccer, that's what took me to a college in southeastern Wisconsin where I was able to play soccer. But I went to school for marketing, which back in the early eighties meant most likely it meant sales slash marketing, which meant if you were lucky, you might be a fax machine salesperson or you'd end up selling things door to door. It was very cloudy. And the only reason I went to school for marketing is because I wanted to be a cartoonist in grade school, and I was a very good artist, but I would seek the approval or maybe the advice of different adults, Hey, I'm thinking of going to this school, what do you think? And because it's so unconventional, I'd get the response, well, why would you do that? You can't make any money at that. (00:23:18): So I thought, all right, I'm in high school. And I realized, well, my art skills, my good friend Louis's dad's an architect. I want to be an architect. Not realizing at the time that you needed to be really good with maths and science, and I was not good in math and science, but I remember Louis's dad telling me, well, the computer age is coming. I don't know if architects will exist anymore. It's going to all be computer driven, (00:23:43): Right? This is early eighties before Macintosh came out, before really saw the personal computer segment grow. So once again, a well-intentioned, but Ill-advised adult telling me that you can't make money at that or something's going to change it. I ended up going to school for marketing, which is all well and good, but I floundered for a few years, first few years of college playing soccer. And I realized that part of what I enjoyed about art was that visual storytelling. And I would read comic books, just like most writers read a lot to sharpen their cognitive skills for wordplay and structure and so forth. I would always read, probably read more comic books and actually read textbooks. Maybe that's why I wasn't good at Math of Science. But what prompted me to switch to journalism halfway through college was I just wasn't into playing soccer anymore. I enjoyed it, but I would find myself asking. All my teammates always had questions, very inquisitive, and I decided, well, I'm going to switch to journalism. I'm going to give up playing soccer. I had a good couple solid years on the varsity team, but I became a sports reporter for the school newspaper (00:25:04): Because I also loved music. I was the music reporter. So I'd go to concerts and interview bands. I got a job, a part-time job, as well as a sports reporter for the local daily newspaper. So this is back in the late eighties where I'm taking my own pictures, interviewing people, I'm developing my own film. It was college and high school sports, and I was just gobbling up what journalism meant. And I also was fortunate to have a solid professor or two that really encouraged me. So finally, an adult beyond my parents. Of course, my parents always encouraged me, but an adult whom I respected that said, you've got something here. But I learned the mechanics, the fundamentals, and the foundation of storytelling through the hard news journalism, of course, it's very dry. Your sports reporting, court reporting, news reporting isn't as exciting. So I was able to segue into more long form Narrative magazine stuff. (00:26:10): So the inquisitive nature of asking people, whether it's Brian Ritchie, the bass player from violent fems, who was a big part of my life growing up because they were in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, I was in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. You start asking other people their opinion or something, or you ask them to tell you their story. So in a sense, what I was doing for several years as a journalist is I was learning other people's trials, tribulations, highs, lows, successes, failures, and I've got this ability to soak it all up like a sponge. And as evolved, and I was wanting to be that full-time music journalist, I realized, well, I don't have the courage to move to New York to work for Rolling Stone. I really don't have the financial ability or courage to move to California where a lot of the other publications were. So I kept my nose down. (00:27:02): And when a big recession happened in the early nineties with the first Gulf War, I also found myself after leaving the advertising world kind of in a pickle. A lot of people are now, you're really overqualified. The jobs aren't there. There's a bit of, not a bit of, let's just call it, there's huge uncertainty. I also didn't have a master's degree, so I didn't quite have what it took to slot in where there might've been opportunity. So I kind of did a bit of a self audit. Let's call it an auto audit. What do I really enjoy? Well, I liked storytelling, but what do I really enjoy? Bicycling? And when I worked at my first magazine job when I was just finishing up college, before I got into advertising, the only other younger person, there was a guy named Steve Smith, and he was in the cycling. I walked into his office and he had jerseys hanging there. He had posters on the wall tour to France, stuff. I had no idea. It just wasn't in my thing. I was a hundred percent soccer and comic books, right? (00:28:05): So I said, hold my hand. Walk me into this world. What is bicycling all about? And this is 1988 following year, Greg Laman wins the second tour de France miraculously and the Champ final time trial. So late 1990, early 91. I'm like bicycling industry. That's for me. But as an enthusiast, I knew how to take care of my bicycle, take care of my body. I knew plenty from reading magazines, but I didn't really know the mechanics of the industry. So I took a job at a bike shop, and this is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, when Schwinn was the brand, and it was Top Dog to everybody. And I was able to get a job managing a Schwinn shop. Well, that Schwinn shop had been around for close to 40 years by then. And we did good things because we were named the bicycle dealer Showcase Magazine, top 100 dealer in the country. (00:28:56): So we were part of 100 dealers out of that time, probably close to 7,000 dealers in the US or in the top 100. So I called up the editor and I said, Hey, man, this is really cool. Can you tell me more? I want to do a press release and let look a media know. And he said, well, this is unique. Usually bike shop managers don't respond. They just get the plaque in the mail and they hang it on the wall. But do you have some sort of business degree or journalism degree or PR degree? I said, yeah, journalism and pr. He goes, oh, and you're in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Yeah. Well, we we're here in southern California. I'd really like to, if you're interested, if you want to write a monthly column, that would be great. In fact, if you'd like to do more with maybe interviewing some people in the industry, because Trek is in your backyard, we had a lot of companies that were in our backyard, so to speak, between Wisconsin and Chicago and a little further northwest in Minneapolis. (00:29:54): If it could be our man in the ground in the Midwest, that'd be great. Like, oh. So that was a paying gig that I was doing while I was managing the shop. Well, as you can imagine, after a while, I thought, I want to get into that world. Retail's great for learning. But at age 25, newly married, I kind of wanted to expand a bit. So that led to doing more freelance stuff while I was doing a other things wasn't always easy because lost the bike shop job because we had two locations, and Schwinn went bankrupt, got new ownership in 1993. So all of a sudden, Schwinn wasn't top dog anymore. Trek and Giant were starting to gobble everything up. So with that, I realized, well, I've got this journalism agreement in my back pocket. So I was able to continue freelance riding, but because of the affiliation with bicycle dealer, showcase bike, Europe, velo news, bicycle retailer, industry news, that gave me entree into a lot of bike companies. (00:30:52): Trek, for instance, was about 60 miles away. So here I am interviewing the new CEO and owner of Trek learning his story. So I was able to do the same thing with as I did, interviewing all the soccer players to begin with, with all the musicians for a spell. And it really encouraged me to continue that. But I didn't land my first full-time bike journalist job until February of 2007, because it was interesting. It was real catch 22 because of what I was doing, interviewing different people. I caught the attention of a guy that started a company in Madison, Wisconsin called Airborne Bicycles, and he developed a brand that was just like Dell Computers used to be where you would go online, configure it, customize it, and within a week it would be shipped to your house direct. And we did that with bicycles back in 19 98, 99. (00:31:47): Well, huffy caught the, caught our attention, or we caught Huffys attention rather. And they bought us lock, stock and Barrel and moved us to Dayton, Ohio. And I didn't even know where Dayton was. I had to look it up on a map. I didn't head southeast a whole lot. Moved down there, and it was great for about a year. And then the internet bubble burst. So buying things direct wasn't great anymore. People were going to dealers where bicycles, motorcycles, cars, it's always been the case. You don't just hand a box over it like you do electronic goods. So we struggled a bit and I decided to move on. But the beauty of moving on was starting my own bike shop with my wife and as a boutique bike shop kind of a few years before boutique bike shops were a thing, because with most businesses, you have to go grand theater, right? (00:32:42): Best Buy performance bike shops when they're a thing, or you go boutique. But what's nice about boutique is you rent a small space. So you can't really, you fill it pretty quick. You don't have all this space to fill. And being in Dayton, Ohio, we had the good fortune of also being the place where the Wright brothers did their thing first as newspaper guys, printing press, bicycle manufacturers, and then of course aviation pioneers. And when we launched our business in 2003, it was a hundredth anniversary of the Wright Brothers. So because of what I had learned in my bicycle years working for a manufacturer in Waterford, Wisconsin for a spell, interviewing all these SmartyAnts people that were designers and decision makers, we launched our own brand as well. That coincided with that. So my wife and I were doing that for a good solid four years. (00:33:40): But again, because I had this storytelling ability, and I was friends with the new editor of Bicycle Retailer in Industry News, he asked me to do a bi-monthly column on basically the daily trials and tribulations of launching a boutique bike shop and a bicycle brand in a place like Dayton, Ohio. So that was awesome. Doing that for a couple years, again, caught the attention of a smarty pants muckety muck by the name of Tom Richie. And he is one of the pioneers in the mountain bikes and the cycling industry. I caught his attention somehow something that I wrote, I think resonated with Tom. Fast forward to the fall of 2005, and as I came in, there's a bunch of bicycle industry people and American businessmen that are going to Rwanda soon. Do you want to come with me? And I remember thinking number one, where is that? (00:34:38): Why? And then memory serve that. That's where the genocide happened in 1994. So I said, explain. Explain number one, why you're going. Explain number two. Why on earth would you want me to go? Tom, I think caught on the fact that I was well connected in the industry. Tom, like most pioneers of any sort, the Steve job types, so on and so forth, I think he's got quite a cocktail of dyslexic. He's dyslexic, he's got Asperger's, and he has tunnel vision where nothing else matters, but the end goal of innovation, making things happen. And I don't have any of those, but I'm able to see a bigger picture and I'm able to consolidate and bring people together, build a community. So we ended up going in December of 2005 with the goal of seeing if the bicycle industry can help maybe attract bicycle tourism ecotourism to the country because the country had recovered from the genocide, very hilly about the size of Maryland. They have at that time a hundred thousand coffee and tea farmers. (00:35:55): There's a lot of things that they were growing, but because they didn't have railroad lines at the time, they couldn't really get things out affordably, and they're also landlocked. So what we decided when we went there, we were able to get the lay of the land. We took a tour of almost the entire country by mountain bike. The president of the country, whoever was involved with these business people were connected. So we were able to get helicoptered from one side of the country to another drop down in the middle of the jungle, riding our mountain bikes, getting on boats, doing all this stuff, and really getting the lay of the land, which of course was quite an adventure back home in Dayton, Ohio in December of 2005. I'm sure it was snowing, raining. My wife is trying to manage the business with some friends, help two small kids. But it was quite an adventure in those 10 days. What we saw was, yes, the coffee and tea was a big deal. The challenge was the coffee farmers, these families would pick the coffee cherries and to bring them to the washing station took a long time because the roads were horrible. They were rutted. You couldn't really drive those that had bicycles either hand card them with machetes out of wood. So it looked like something Fred Flintstone made (00:37:16): A hand hued tall wooden scooter, or they had these flying pigeons from China that were one speeds that looked like they were from the thirties. (00:37:26): So that was transportation. So because we came from the bicycle world, we thought if we could help them get the coffee cherries to the washing stations, a cargo bike would be great. And this is right around the time cargo bikes were starting to really take off. But in our travels on our bikes, and at the time we were all very, very fit. Tom has always been world-class fit. And here we are riding these lightweight titanium or lightweight steel or custom bikes through the jungle. And you have all these young boys not equating their teens riding alongside, riding alongside us, wearing fake crocs, riding these single speed bikes. Very heavy. Half of them didn't really have pedals. They just had the steel rods that were left over from when the pedals disintegrated, and they're keeping up with us now. They're keeping up with us, they're shouting at us, they're all excited. Here we are, and this is that elevation. (00:38:25): So we thought, okay, well there's some home talent here. Maybe we should consider starting a national cycling academy, something. So when we got back from our trip and everyone celebrated the holidays at home, wherever they came from in the us, we met in Carmel Highlands, south of Carmel, BA Sea, near Monterey in California. A couple months later, we decided, let's go ahead and develop cargo bikes. So with my connections and Tom's connections, we developed working prototype, which eventually became something that once we researched how A to Africa worked and didn't work, we realized these coffee farmers, there'd be co-ops where there'd be, let's say 10 to 20 of them in a co-op. They'd share expenses, they'd share the backbreaking work, but they'd also share in the spoils. When we developed these coffee hauling cargo bikes, we wouldn't just, you don't gift things to Africa because black market's going to intercept it and it's not going to land in the hands of the people that need it. (00:39:38): So we realized with micro loans that we were selling these bikes for our costs for basically the factories cost, which is about 150 bucks because they're made in Asia, and they were sturdy. Wonderful, perfect. So we're able to get a program on the ground that we sold these bikes, and I think we sold upwards of 2000 by 2007, 2008. And Tom's son, Jay was on the ground managing that process. So that was part of taking care of, from our perspective, how can we help the coffee farmers? As we found out later, two of the American businessmen involved were Howard Schultz from Starbucks and whoever the guy was that was leading Costco. So they had plans for volume. They really wanted to help the country, and they had the means and the connections to do it. So on the development side, with some sort of cycling academy, we realized and agreed that wouldn't it be great if we can identify some up and coming cyclists, just like they've done for years in Europe, and to some degree in the US kids, in their teens, they're a junior racer. They go through US Cycling Academy or maybe somewhere in Italy and Spain, where some of the best cyclists have been Belgium, France before that, and identify them young and train them up to represent their country at maybe an Olympics, maybe at a world championship, maybe at the creme de la creme, the true to France. And that would be the ultimate way of vaulting Rwanda in the international spotlight as a country that's healthy, what's more healthy than a cyclist (00:41:24): At that world-class level? So we went back to Rwanda in September of 2006. We put on what was called the Wooden Bike Classic. It was a mountain bike race that ended up in a stadium where 5,000 people were in attendance. And the 19-year-old kid that won it, Adrian Ti was his name, ended up taking 30 ninths in the 2012 London Olympics on the mountain bike team for Rwanda. In fact, he led the Rwandan contingency, the Olympic team. He carried the Rwandan flag into the stadium in London. (00:42:01): And how we achieved that was one of the gentlemen at that, that very timely meeting in Carmel Highlands was Jock Boyer. Jock Boyer was the first American win France to race the Tour de France in 1981. He raced with Bernardo, who was a five-time winner. The first American to win it, of course, was Greg Lamont in 1986. But Jock and Tom go way back to the seventies when they used to race against each other. Jock wanted to become a professional cyclist, and he did, and Tom thought he would be that. But he ended up becoming a very prolific bicycle frame builder, innovator, and one of the innovators and pioneers in mountain biking. So Jock decided, I will move to Rwanda. I will start an academy, and I will take everything. I learned all of his time from his mentors in California when he was first noticed in the seventies, to everyone that he was trained by and raced against in the seventies and eighties and in time, much like we're talking about Fox Stories, Fox Academy, it's one thing to identify a potential cyclist for any sort of level, but he realized he needed to bring mechanics over there. (00:43:24): He needed to not just focus on the young men, but the young women. So as it stands now, there are a handful of academies over in Africa that jocks has established, and there are men's teams and women's teams, and it's something that the foundation has been laid. And I think pre COVID, there was talk of possibly someone from one of those academies actually being part of a Tour de France team.", "token_estimate": 5061, "speakers": ["Gary Boulanger"], "start_timestamp": "00:21:21", "end_timestamp": "00:21:21", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "6ce057d5-9d53-4f6c-a9ff-9f6ab938eaa2", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 8, "content": "Speaker 3 (00:43:51): Oh, wow. This year,\n\nGary Boulanger (00:43:52): Yeah, I believe last year one of them did race Perry Rube. So it is rather interesting to see how someone's invitation, Hey, do you want to go Rwanda? To which I responded, well, if you're buying, I'm flying. Because back then it was a $2,500 round trip ticket and I didn't have that sort of cash, but I'm glad I did. Again, it goes back to what you're saying. When you have an opportunity, there's maybe a bit bewildering on the surface if you say yes, and just kind of explore and see what it means. Because fast forward to where I'm sitting now in California, project Rwanda, as it became known, became such a focus of Tom's, myself and others, that Tom convinced my wife and I to move out to California in May of 2006 to help him with Project Rwanda. Part of the challenge was our bike shop didn't quite make the cut in moving out and getting relocated out here. So (00:44:47): That left us with a bit of debt. It was cool to be a part of Project Rwanda, but we kind of had to go back to square one. But we were out here. Tom had said, well, there's always good opportunity out in California. And he knew that we were made of that sort of tough stuff to make things work. And even though our plans didn't come together, what led to that first full-time journalist job was future publications in the uk. They needed someone in the Bay Area that was willing to become the US editor for a new website called Bike Radar. And they chose me, which was awesome. That helped us kind of get out of debt. That helped me really gain some footing in the bike industry. (00:45:33): Again, it was something that the timing was ideal because I could work from a home office. So even though I had done that on the side, it was kind of like my side hustle with everything else I had done up until that point. It really conditioned me to be doing what most people are doing right now. So when a lot of people were freaking out about working from home, it's actually kind of awesome. So a lot of these experiences have meant that even with the uncertainty, nothing is paved in stone. And from a standpoint of someone like me who I enjoyed being classically trained in journalism and PR back in the eighties, that helped lay a foundation. But as time wore on with 2007 when I took the job at Bike Radar, that's when Twitter started coming along. That's when Facebook started picking up steam. (00:46:31): Instagram was just, it was a few years off, but social media, which was cool at the time, meant that traditional media like myself, our place in the world was starting to deteriorate. What used to be the town square where people would come and talk and share gossip became the general store became Walmart. Well, in time, that became Facebook and everyone's in front of a computer or some sort of gadget. People were allowed to do their storytelling, but it's not quite the same. You get people weighing in with their opinions, that's cool. But if someone's charged with myself writing about my experiences of Rwanda for a magazine at the time, or maybe doing a bike review for Bike Radar or interviewing the owners and CEOs of Trek and specialized on the state of American bicycling, the time that was starting to get wiped out, because then people's attention spans mainly because of Twitter, were being narrowed down to a soundbite. And as you and I talked about earlier, the big push then for marketing was, well, we need to align ourselves with what Facebook and others are doing that we need to message that community, that town square. And what's happened with that too is I remember seeing a billboard where it was General Mills, I believe, a large blue chip company, big company, it's been around for decades. Their marketing, instead of having their own tagline, it was they chose to put facebook.com, general Mills, (00:48:15): They put themselves from a branding perspective behind Facebook. Interesting. That's when I knew things were changing, right?", "token_estimate": 1006, "speakers": ["Speaker 3", "Gary Boulanger"], "start_timestamp": "00:43:51", "end_timestamp": "00:43:52", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "fb09eb16-5c35-4c71-992c-b6172c8e746b", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 9, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:48:21): You saw the writing on the wall.\n\nGary Boulanger (00:48:23): Yeah, taking back, taking back the message. So as we saw, and as we're still seeing, a lot of publications are either compromising with branded content, so you're not really believing. To me, that's fake news, by the way, but you're not really believing what you're reading. And with companies thinking that their 100% marketing messaging has to be via social media. Well, last I checked our company, we own ride fox.com. Our competitor, technically, if you're following me, is facebook.com. So let's generate content that matters. That means something, that tells the story that's legit, that gets people excited. We'll share it with our competitor with Facebook because their stock and trade is shared content, but we're not going to make it our end all be all. I think it's really important that especially manufacturers do a better job with their own websites, but also do more storytelling with video. (00:49:26): And it's okay to go longer than the 15 to 30 seconds that Instagram stories is telling us it's best for readership and engagement. We do that too. Believe me, we have videos that start off with 10 minutes and we're going to be pulling out those core 15 seconds because we are going to be using different channels to market our message. But I think you had asked me recently when we were chatting, you were a little surprised that I've been advocating for a longer narrative with marketing. And it's something that I think when you look at the print magazines that are doing well, monocle and others, they're going long, right? They're looking for other revenue streams outside of the advertising. You look at Vogue, Marie, Claire, whatever. I do not look at those on a daily basis, but I'm aware of them. And I remember looking through one of those a few years back, and the first 20 pages plus were advertising. (00:50:31): It was all luxurious advertising, which is great. But I think readers deserve more. We want the meat. We want information. If we're going to be away from our computer screens and even our smartphones, we want to be able to drift away from that a bit and really detach. And that's where the long narrative can go. Now, mind you, that long narrative has to be good, if not stellar, if not fantastic. So the fact that I'm advocating long narrative in marketing and branding is not just for anybody. I think it definitely helps that there are several of us on the Fox marketing team that are classically trained in journalism. They're classically trained in storytelling. The fact that we do all of our video in-house, the only thing that we outsource is we use a voice narrator for the voiceover stuff. A few of us tried in-house, but a professional didn't work. (00:51:28): Yeah, a professional is so good, so amazingly good. But that's it. So that was our charter is how can we do with our staff? And our staff is not big. There's 10 of us in the power vehicle group marketing with our staff, run events, run our campaigns, and we make full use of the eyeballs at YouTube, Google search. It's inevitable. That's where people are going. But what we do is we drive people back to ride fox.com because again, we own that and that's where our livelihood lies, our products, our descriptions, our videos, and so forth. And it's been interesting because of the things that I experienced with being open-minded to different job opportunities, our career pivots, it's made moving forward with the challenges we face starting March 16th, when we were told in Santa Clara County, I think we're the first in the country to be told to shelter in place, and I think we turned to each other. (00:52:34): And so what does that mean? I mean, we're going home. Do we bring our laptops and our, so we're going home. We need to bring our monitors and everything. And to be able to pivot in a digital world has been helpful. And like we mentioned earlier, with our manufacturing being shuttered for a time being, that was a super huge challenge because we also had to throttle back our storytelling. We throttled back the introduction of Fox Academy until June 9th because we knew this would create instant engagement. And nothing's worse than reading about something online that you can't have because your competitor always going to be there to say, well, we got this. And people seemed with their stimulus money too. People seem to be eager to spend it in good ways. And our demographic, they play outdoors and they're not afraid to spend money. They're risk takers. (00:53:37): They work hard, they save up their money, and they're not as, impetuous isn't the right word. They're not just going to respond. They're not going to have a knee-jerk reaction to going out and buy something. Like most people that are buying something with technology, especially moving parts like ours, they're going to research it. So that's why when we first came out with Fox Academy, it was, alright, here's how a shock works, the various parts of a shock. And we just came back a couple of weeks ago from introducing our Jeep use case campaign, which essentially breaks down what people do with their Jeeps. A lot of times people would always assume, oh, someone has a Jeep, they're going to go rock crawling. Well, that's not for me. Or they're going to go racing in the desert. Well, that's definitely not for me. You see a lot of Jeeps, much like you see SUVs or even bulldozer trucks driving along on the highway. (00:54:39): It's all kinds of use. But we realize that people were a little confused as to what to do with some of the components we offered for their various levels of beeping. And we went out in the desert, had some media, we worked with four wheel parts based on there, and we created some content. The media were able to get behind or they weren't able to get behind the wheel. We wanted them to experience it because you have much more interesting seat of the pants experience when you're not behind the wheel. Because when you're behind the wheel, you're in charge. You don't quite feel everything. You know this from being a passenger in the backseat or even the passenger in the front seat. Everything feels different. You're always pushing for that fake brake pedal. You always feel like someone's going too fast. So we were able to provide this experience, and that was our first time being out and about in months of all these events being canceled, we did all the COVID protection, we had all the protective gear and all that, and it was fun. (00:55:34): It was hot in the desert, 108, but it was a dry heat. So there's a difference, a little more manageable. But it was fun to actually see hardcore off-road journalists have fun, get to experience something. Because what we took from that too is we got a much better understanding of how the end user is going to experience and respond to something. We served a lot of different needs on that quick trip down to Orange County. We're hoping to do some more of that. It's just there's so much going on with these wildfires, shelter in place down here where we are in California, there's still quite a bit of back and forth thing on just with the number of cases, a lot of mixed signals on how people should be behaving, how people should be operating. It's quite a testament to Google and Facebook and others where they said, we don't expect our employees to come back until next summer. Let's let everything fall into place. And it's a bit easier for our digital companies. It's a challenge for them is they own a lot of real estate and there's a lot of empty offices that they're struggling with. (00:56:50): A lot of people working from home. I think people have been wanting those that have been wanting to have a life balance and work from home that's been a benefit for them. We definitely see it here. My wife runs a rather sizable coffee shop in downtown Mountain View. They've not been closed for a day since this happened, and they've been able to make it work. So everyone has their own response to COVID, their own response to even how they message things. No one wants to keep hearing in these trying times or due to COVID. We get it. (00:57:23): Yeah. Part of it is, as marketers and brand ambassadors and storytellers, we do want to be uplifting to people. We all know that people need to take care of themselves. And being outside, I think personally has been very healthy for my family as cyclists, motorcyclists and other people seem to feel the same way. And I know that not everyone's been following protocol when it comes to the size of groups getting together. Sturgis was quite interesting, the fact that you still had tens of thousands of people. The fact that the Sturgis city Council asked its citizens of which they're only not quite 6,000 months ago, folks, what do you think? Should we do this or not? This is the 80th anniversary, right? Talk about branding the citizens. I think 60% of them said, yeah, yeah, we should do this. But there's a lot of voicing against it. (00:58:21): But then the Sturgis organizers met with the city council and realized people are coming, whether we're inviting them or not, 80 years of tradition. So what Sturgis did is they pivoted and they messaged people that were planning to come saying, you know what? Come, it's not going to be the same. We're not going to be holding huge concerts of Snoop Dogg in the Buffalo Chip like we've done. But by the way, when you do come out, just as a reminder, this is awesome riding out here. Come spend a few hours downtown, do your thing, but pop forth. Go ride the hills. And from what I can tell, it was good. But that's one of those situations where people don't realize that Sturgis is a town. They know it as this event, Coachella, same sort of thing. And you've got these regions that are now known for these events. (00:59:14): And that's where I think the biggest challenge has been is we're a society that is very community focused and it's always been healthy. And we have these beautiful festivals. We have these beautiful gatherings that have been thwarted for now. And I think that's been sending people into a bit of a tailspin. And we have a lot of social unrest, a lot of civic unrest. We have all kinds of political unrest. It's always been a challenge in a presidential election year. And that's some sort of branding too, because you have Democrats versus Republicans too bad. A lot of it is us versus them versus here's what we can do. It's what they're doing wrong. And I've worked for some companies in the past where we would pick out our competitors' weaknesses. And I never thought that was really wise. The whole Coke versus Pepsi thing, I think it's best to as individuals, but mainly as corporations, to highlight strengths, play on them. (01:00:19): And that's where the long narrative goes. If you have decades of content to share, maybe to repurpose in video form, in narrative, long narrative form, I think companies that have the benefit of having, not brand ambassadors per se, but athletes. I think that's why Red Bull has reigned supreme. I'm a big fan of Formula One and Moto gp, and it's interesting to see Monster and Red Bull just do so much. Monster doesn't do a whole lot of storytelling. Monster is kind of like Microsoft. They sell a lot of stuff. They get out there, but it's kind of boring. Apple is like Red Bull. They go long. They have these relationships, affiliations, and you just can't help yourself. You want to learn more. You want to be a part of that world. And Red Bull specifically has really captured my fancy, and what's interesting and very telling is when you go to Red bull.com, you're getting nothing but storytelling. You have to scroll for a long time to actually get down to a portion of the site that brings you anywhere near the product.", "token_estimate": 2972, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Gary Boulanger"], "start_timestamp": "00:48:21", "end_timestamp": "00:48:23", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "203e12a7-cf60-4b7c-82ed-b44fa316b2a9", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 10, "content": "Cole Heilborn (01:01:34): Yeah, it's interesting for a lot of companies, it's not about the product, it's about the culture, the lifestyle, the brand around it all. It's about the people around the product. And when you see big brands like Red Bull doing that, you're talking about writing on the wall. When you saw that billboard, it's the same thing.\n\nGary Boulanger (01:01:59): Oh yeah. And it all goes down to leadership. The owner of Red Bull, he knew a long time ago, one thing to have a product. He knew in time that he was going to get competition. (01:02:13): I mean, it's inevitable. You do something really good and other people are like, there's money in that. That's sweet. There's a lot of money in that. That's doubly sweet. But to go out and to capture the fancy of younger people, older people, like me people in between the fact that it's so exciting to see what people can do with GoPro, the fact that we could literally see what people were doing right with the action sports. Something that I think has really turned things around to society as spectators to participants. And I think that's one thing that's been probably the most healthiest from social media combined with what Red Bull has been fostering and what companies like GoPro have been providing and others like GoPro is people are going, I could do that. And again, it goes back to me in the seventies being excited about watching the Green Bay Packers, but wanting to be more of a participant, less of a spectator. And obviously not everyone's going to make it to the NFL and I did not make it to Major League Soccer, but that wasn't my goal. The fact that we identify with this brand and the Green Bay Packers, they're probably one of the strongest brands out there, major league sports, and it's still owned by the community. I think that's super cool. The last of the nonprofits to be a major league sport. (01:03:40): So that's it in a nutshell as far as branding from early days to current situation on why traditional storytelling probably matters more than any other time right now.", "token_estimate": 519, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Gary Boulanger"], "start_timestamp": "01:01:34", "end_timestamp": "01:01:59", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "e4f1c18f-59e7-4f85-9af3-55a6b3c60d10", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 11, "content": "Cole Heilborn (01:03:55): Yeah, I love it. My last question for you is a lot of people define themselves by their job or their career, and I have a feeling that you maybe don't feel the same way because you've done so much and you've been very willing and comfortable to go with the flow. What have you learned about yourself by not being so attached to whatever you were doing at the current time?\n\nGary Boulanger (01:04:23): I've learned to be open-minded growing up, and it's not so much, maybe it's a Midwest thing, I don't know. It's very endearing, but to be not narrow-minded, but solely focused on one particular career path. That used to be the case. My dad and my father-in-law both retired from, my dad retired from Proctor and Gamble, and my father-in-law retired from Shell Oil after 30 some years combined or each full pension. They made good money once they moved up the ladder, and that was great. Neither one of 'em really liked their jobs, but they provided it for their families. And I can't call that that narrowly focused and that's awesome. But the way society has evolved in this technical age, starting with personal computing and software in the eighties to the internet in the nineties to social media in the two thousands, that really doesn't apply anymore. And I had this weird feeling in the eighties. Like I said, my narrow focus was music journalists Rolling Stone, but I wasn't willing to make that jump. So when I pivoted toward bicycles, I'm glad I did because that led me to so many opportunities. But even at a certain point, after 24 years in the bicycle industry, in late spring of 2015, I woke up and I just didn't feel it anymore, (01:05:51): Which was really weird because I was the editor in chief of a bicycling magazine. You're supposed to feel it. You're supposed to exude it, you're supposed to evangelize it, you're supposed to. If you were to poke my skin, I'd bleed, bicycling. I mean, I was all in, right? But I wasn't feeling it anymore. And that's when I realized, all right, I'm not quite 50. I think I was 49 at the time. I want to do something else. So I did a self-audit like I did back in 19 90, 91. What do I really want to be doing right now? Motorcycling. (01:06:24): I'm an enthusiast. I ride a lot. Do I know it technically just like the bicycling that many years before. No, but I can learn that willingness to learn, not to shut down your capacity for learning once you graduate high school or college tech school or whatever, but always be open and have that confidence that if given the opportunity, you could fill up that void, that knowledge void and become an expert. And I did that with cycling, and I thought I could do this with motorcycling. And I'm really glad I did with hindsight because my storytelling and journalism skills, but also the fact that I didn't mind working retail. Not everyone wants to work retail. I don't recommend it to those that are not into it because it can be really hard, but you learn so much, you're literally on the front lines. (01:07:15): And that's what I learned at the Schwinn dealership back in 1991 when I first started. So I ended up taking a position as managing a motorcycle clothing store in San Francisco in the spring of 2015. They would show motor GP every Sunday it was playing. So that's how I discovered the place. And that was cool. But San Francisco has been a hotbed of motorcycling for decades. It's an epicenter. So people were literally, by my working there, I would go in and I would be working, and I have my staff and the brand was De and that's who sponsors Valentino Rossi, one of the greatest motorcyclists of all time. So people knew the brand. So I'm kind of marinating myself in all this cool motorcycle culture, but people were coming to where I was working and sharing all their knowledge, bragging about the latest Ducati purchase, asking me about Lorenzo versus Ducati, and as far as the championship was going, all these things. So I literally sponge it all up just like I did that many years before with bicycling. And that caught the attention of an editor of Cycle World Magazine. And he asked me to cover an assignment nearby a product launch. And I said, of course, of course. I was not the best motorcyclist compared to the other", "token_estimate": 1069, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Gary Boulanger"], "start_timestamp": "01:03:55", "end_timestamp": "01:04:23", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "6fe71738-981b-4d18-854d-99ee75aaeca8", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 12, "content": "Speaker 3 (01:08:33): World-class\n\nGary Boulanger (01:08:33): Journalists. So of course I was self-conscious about that. But I went into it like, I'm here representing Cycle world, so I must be good. (01:08:41): And I just took a different approach. We did some rides. It was fun. I felt nervous. I shouldn't have been, it was no big deal. But I was able to interview the chief technology officer. I had FaceTime with the CEO. I was able to use those journalistic and storytelling skills to go deeper. And I thought that my overview of that experience played well for what psych world needed. My editor was happy following year. I signed on as senior editor, and I spent a good year and a half with the Cycle World organization. And I had access to everybody, much like I did years before with cycling when I was enjoying cycling, rather sponge it all up. But it was at a time where Bonier, who owned Cycle World and other titles, they were shutting down print left and, and they're even combining digital left and, and that was super, super hard. (01:09:33): And I really was getting the itch to take what I learned, but also I don't want to be pigeonholed with just motorcycling. I mean power vehicle as a late comer to Formula One, seeing what was happening in the side-by-side world, realizing that just over the hill, there's a manufacturer called Fox that would be super cool. A friend of mine that worked at Ducati said, Hey man, they've got an opening. And I said, really? And I've not had the best luck doing interviews in the past. It was always word of mouth. I rarely had to fill out and create a resume. And I did not interview well over the phone, (01:10:10): Unfortunately. And I just thought, great, I would love to do this, but it looks like it's not to be. And somehow it was meant to be. And we've got a bit of a ragtag group of people that kind of come from all different industries. But our boss came from Apple and he knew how to identify all the various players and how we all fit in. And halfway through last year, I started January 2nd of 19, halfway through last year, we were also tasked with doing the marketing for El Cajon, so our trucking off road, all the big boys stuff. And that was a challenge and a chore because I was just warming up with learning the ins and outs, nuts and bolts of UTV snowmobile,", "token_estimate": 584, "speakers": ["Speaker 3", "Gary Boulanger"], "start_timestamp": "01:08:33", "end_timestamp": "01:08:33", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "03ee9c96-b623-4fed-a1bd-1bb42980c51a", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 13, "content": "Speaker 3 (01:10:56): Side\n\nGary Boulanger (01:10:56): By side motorcycling. I had down, I was asked just to focus primarily on motorcycling marketing for the first part of the year. No brainer. That was awesome. That was fun. I was just learning the mechanics of working for a corporation. Again, it had been a long time. And what was super cool about is that truck and offroad division has just soared as far as business dealings, aftermarket eyeballs, OEM partners, everything else. I mean, mind you, our power sports side does well, but the truck and off road is just exploding. So I'm glad we're given the opportunity to be working with that because that actually adds a lot more to my plate with opportunities to do some storytelling. (01:11:43): When you start talking Baja and you're looking at these images and videos of King of the Hammers where people are doing things in trucks that no mere mortal can even fathom, that's super cool. Those are great assets to capture from a marketing standpoint. And that's also where we get a lot of our fan base, so to speak. The last couple of King of the Hammers and Seima last year, I kept running into the same contingent from Australia, and they would take their holiday, they'd come over here, they'd do these races, they'd go to the events, and for them it was about buying Fox merch. They can't buy it in their homeland, and if they could, it would be really expensive to get it from us. So when they come here, they just stock up and they're just, they're whipping on a hundred dollars bills buying all this merch. (01:12:31): And as a newbie last year at Fox, I said, why are you guys so ggo over Fox? And I was able to just get it straight from the horse's mouth, what it meant to them. My father and I did this, my mom and I, our whole family did this much. And going back to the origin story with Bob Fox, the motocross scene and the motocross community has always been entire family. You've got mom and dad and the kids. They're all out there doing their thing right at the races out in the desert or at the track. And that's something that I realized that if we can bottle it up and capture that, and if we could reflect that in what we do with number one, our website, and now when you go to Ride Fox, most of what you're seeing on what we call our landing pages for our various categories, we've totally refurbished based on feedback we've received, based on our experiences out in the field. (01:13:22): The fact that we've been able to get behind the bars, behind the wheels of most of the vehicles for which we make suspension, you get a true understanding of why people get excited to get jazzed about things. I don't know if people are that excited about the new iPhone. They sometimes can be, but after a while, that wears off. So we have a bit of a responsibility to make good on the promise that this is going to be awesome. You're going to have fun. Please lay hands on it, make it your own, and so forth. And I think that's the same. I can say with my career, I've not allowed my career to be left to the hands of others. I mean, even when Tom Richie had promised to help us move our business out here, and that fell through. I mean, that kind of left us a bit destitute financially, but it was time to pivot and time to move the family out west and great things have happened, and I wouldn't be sitting here talking to you, I don't think, if I hadn't said yes to Tom's proposal to go to Rwanda and then move out here. (01:14:25): Right?", "token_estimate": 878, "speakers": ["Speaker 3", "Gary Boulanger"], "start_timestamp": "01:10:56", "end_timestamp": "01:10:56", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "5098129c-9fde-4ea9-9bd8-7b5e29b84a7e", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 14, "content": "Cole Heilborn (01:14:26): Yeah. Yeah. It's funny how it all comes together. You only realize that when you look backwards looking forwards, you can't see where it all goes, but you look back and you're like, oh, yeah, I see how that all\n\nGary Boulanger (01:14:36): Works. Yeah. It's funny when you mention it like that. I try really hard if someone ever gets a quick overview of maybe my career path. I have a lot of friends that are really struggling right now, a couple of them that have never lost a job before. So now they lost their job in January, and here they are looking for work, and the odds of finding something are really, really, really low. But I will share that. I'll say, well, with foresight, use the benefit of hindsight to understand that maybe if you take that personal audit and look at career, what does a career really mean in this day and age? What should it mean? What could it mean? But also, don't be afraid to totally jump into a whole new industry and be confident in the fact that the skills one learns in a different industry do apply. (01:15:38): And we should all remind ourselves that Steve Jobs lasted one semester at Reed College, and that Bill Gates decided to bag off Harvard, and at Gary Erickson at Cliff Bar, I think he got his AA from a community college in the East Bay of California. They've all done well for themselves. So sometimes we get too hung up on the fact that we need continual education, formal education in order to make it in this world. I think maybe COVID is going to shake things up where you're going to have someone that really brings something strong to the table and know they don't have a certain pedigree, but they've got grip, they have action, they have life experiences of failing really big, stumbling really hard, but getting up again, and I think that is what society needs as a whole, but also corporate world. I think we're going to see more of that as well. People that aren't just proud of their accomplishments, but are resilient.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:16:38): Right. Proud of their failures", "token_estimate": 517, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Gary Boulanger"], "start_timestamp": "01:14:26", "end_timestamp": "01:16:38", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "1809b792-10f6-4bff-8adf-95b433a0c6ca", "episode_id": "866bde16-a78a-49c7-89c6-44cc876f737b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c484b", "chunk_index": 15, "content": "Gary Boulanger (01:16:39): Too. Yeah, and gosh, I mean, talk about resilience right now. I need a triple dose of it every day. I think everyone's just kind of bubbling at the surface or right below the surface going, well, I'm just going to keep pushing for today. I can't make any plans for the weekend. That's fine. Weekend's going to arrive and times will improve. But it's been super solid and it's been good to look back on it and kind of go, that's why that happened. That's all hindsight thing, aha moment where, okay, I was pushing for that, not realizing that something better was about to happen and opening yourself up to that.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:17:15): Yeah. Well, you've said it better than I could have ever hoped you would've said it, but I appreciate you sharing your story. I feel like I need to write down your whole career history kind of a lot to take and process and put into a timeline, but thank you so much for spending the last bit of time here with us sharing. It's been a lot of fun.\n\nGary Boulanger (01:17:37): Yeah, my pleasure. I appreciate it, Cole.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:17:39): Absolutely. If people want to find you, if they want to follow along with the work you're doing or Fox, where can they go?\n\nGary Boulanger (01:17:47): Probably the best thing would be ride fox.com. I mean, most of what's going on there is the handiwork from myself and my team. It's been fun. I mean, I'm on LinkedIn as well. I actually have been pulled away from social media the last few months. That was one of those self audit things where I just thought, I really don't need to be filling my head with what everyone's thinking and doing. It's not a slight on any of my friends, family, or extended followers. I have that many followers. But I think it's been good. I think it's been good to have clarity.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:18:20): Yep. All right. Well, sounds good, Gary. Thanks so much and have a good rest of your day.\n\nGary Boulanger (01:18:24): Thanks, Cole.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:18:25): Alright, thank you. Thank you for listening to this episode of the Backcountry Marketing Podcast. If you enjoyed today's episode or learned something new, please consider leaving us a review on Apple or sharing this with a friend.", "token_estimate": 559, "speakers": ["Gary Boulanger", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "01:16:39", "end_timestamp": "01:18:25", "podcast_index": 29, "episode_name": "Ep 29: Gary Boulanger | Make the Jump | FOX Factor‪y‬", "slug": "ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-29-gary-boulanger-make-the-jump-fox-factory", "guest_name": "Gary", "guest_title": "Communications Marketing Manager, FOX Factory", "categories": [], "short_description": "\"Don't be afraid to totally jump into a new industry and be confident that the skills learned translate to other industries.\"", "podcast_length": "44:51"}, {"id": "5db0c371-b831-4bb2-a5ff-81768a3edc66", "episode_id": "b52ccfcd-175d-4353-bfe6-3329bcfefa6b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4824", "chunk_index": 0, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:03): Welcome to Brand Story, the podcast where we interview individuals who are creating and designing the brands we interact with every day. My name is Cole, he Warren, and today I'm here with Sean Fields, the Vice President of Brand at Gear Aid. How are you doing?\n\nSean Fields (00:14): I'm doing well.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:16): Good to see you.\n\nSean Fields (00:16): Thanks for having me.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:17): Yeah, absolutely. Tell me about Gear Aid. What do you guys do?\n\nSean Fields (00:21): We primarily make care and repair products for outdoor gear. We also make adventure tools, which is kind of things to make your outdoor experience better. Knives, lights, pair of cord, things like that. But historically we've been, our core has been about care and maintenance for your jackets and sleeping bags and anything that you would use in the outdoors.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:42): Okay, okay, gotcha. So you guys are all about getting people back on the road, back into the woods and get people back into the adventure after unfortunate snag or terror.\n\nSean Fields (00:53): Correct? Correct. Cool. I call it the pit stop company because our goal is to, one, educate people about how to be able to do things themselves and maintain their own gear, which really provides that sustainability and elongates their gear life. But also we want people to be getting outside Our why is basically champion renewal and we feel that the outdoors is one of the best places to do that.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:22): Tell me a little bit about yourself. What does your job look like? What do you do in the day to day?", "token_estimate": 405, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Sean Fields"], "start_timestamp": "00:03", "end_timestamp": "01:22", "podcast_index": null, "episode_name": "Ep 2: Sean Fields | Sustainability in the Outdoor Industry | Gear Aid", "slug": "sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "guest_name": null, "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "In this episode, I sit down with Sean Fields from Gear Aid and talk about what sustainability in the outdoor industry really means. Many brands have built upon that idea, but what does it actually mean?", "podcast_length": "44:24"}, {"id": "6076b24f-fad5-4678-a7f7-1a9e8748290b", "episode_id": "b52ccfcd-175d-4353-bfe6-3329bcfefa6b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4824", "chunk_index": 1, "content": "Sean Fields (01:28): Day to day? Good question. We're a small company. We have less than 50 employees. My role is over product development and marketing. I have two great team leads in that, Ray Klein and Charis. Ola. Ray is in charge of the product development and design. He's our design director. And then Charis is our marketing director, so she's the champion of that team. So I'm fortunate enough to have them, I don't want to say below me, but essentially running those teams and then I help kind of guide it from a brand standpoint. And then I also work with other departments within the organization specifically about things that are brand oriented, so hr, employee handbooks, events, things like that with sales, like how we present ourselves when we show up in retail or in sales meetings and giving them tools, even just in the warehouse, how we interact with our staff there and how we get them engaged with the brand.\n\nCole Heilborn (02:37): Okay. And so when you're looking at the company as a whole, you're looking at pieces of it, but all those pieces kind have to fit underneath this umbrella, and that's this brand that you're talking about. How do you see those different pieces and then how do you see them all fitting together?", "token_estimate": 313, "speakers": ["Sean Fields", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "01:28", "end_timestamp": "02:37", "podcast_index": null, "episode_name": "Ep 2: Sean Fields | Sustainability in the Outdoor Industry | Gear Aid", "slug": "sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "guest_name": null, "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "In this episode, I sit down with Sean Fields from Gear Aid and talk about what sustainability in the outdoor industry really means. Many brands have built upon that idea, but what does it actually mean?", "podcast_length": "44:24"}, {"id": "e31f229a-7176-4e7e-858a-88d1aae70a7b", "episode_id": "b52ccfcd-175d-4353-bfe6-3329bcfefa6b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4824", "chunk_index": 2, "content": "Sean Fields (03:01): The brand that we are building, historically, it's been around for 35 years, but it was a business model that had brands underneath the overarching business. And so four years ago, we made the decision that was just too much and we decided to say, Hey, we're going to collapse all these brands into one. That gave us an opportunity to really define what Gear Aid was. All the pieces worked together, just like the parts of the body or elements of your household, they all work together to make your home or who you are. And so whether that's in sales or in product development, marketing, finance, someone who greets people at the front door, shakes a hand when we're shipping stuff out, they all work together to be an impression on the brand. And so you want that to be as consistent as possible and educate people with the tools that makes their job easier, but also gives them the ability to leave that impression no matter where they're at.\n\nCole Heilborn (04:11): So back up a little bit. You said you had four different brands underneath the one. Where did those come from and how did you guys end up to a place where you decided to dissolve those and move forward with the one", "token_estimate": 302, "speakers": ["Sean Fields", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "03:01", "end_timestamp": "04:11", "podcast_index": null, "episode_name": "Ep 2: Sean Fields | Sustainability in the Outdoor Industry | Gear Aid", "slug": "sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "guest_name": null, "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "In this episode, I sit down with Sean Fields from Gear Aid and talk about what sustainability in the outdoor industry really means. Many brands have built upon that idea, but what does it actually mean?", "podcast_length": "44:24"}, {"id": "6479b061-30bf-4da4-a635-f6df4f98110a", "episode_id": "b52ccfcd-175d-4353-bfe6-3329bcfefa6b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4824", "chunk_index": 3, "content": "Sean Fields (04:25): We used to be called Mcne Corporation, and Dwayne and Nancy Mcne founded the company in 1981. So they were always interested in looking at new products. They kind of landed into care and repair back in the day with kind of outdoor rain suits, and they needed to develop products that would repair those. So that's where that kind of all started. Building the different brands, house of Brands was kind of the thing back then. And so Gear Aid was one of the brands and RevX, or not, sorry, not revive, X Gear Aid, M Essentials, which was a dive specific. There was Outgo, which was a brand specifically around towels. We had Mcna tactical. So all of those played together in different categories, but when we were purchased, that was something that was looking at the staff that we had and the resources we had to run all those brands, you need a lot of resources and a lot of money. (05:39): So that was something that was a recommendation that we did and we moved forward with. So that that's been a really rough transition to do that and to go from more of a B2B behind the scenes global brand into something that's very in your face. And we want to expand that. The name, the impression, what we do, because consumers demand it. It's becoming more and more important that consumers understand the companies that they're purchasing their goods from. So we've done a lot of work and we're still doing a lot of work to build a brand. Just the rework of product was a massive undertaking. And while we did that, we did a huge slim exercise to narrow up the product offering, get rid of duplicates so that then we can scale up and go bigger.\n\nCole Heilborn (06:41): And how involved have you been in that process, the trimming and the reshaping of the company's brand?", "token_estimate": 447, "speakers": ["Sean Fields", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "04:25", "end_timestamp": "06:41", "podcast_index": null, "episode_name": "Ep 2: Sean Fields | Sustainability in the Outdoor Industry | Gear Aid", "slug": "sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "guest_name": null, "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "In this episode, I sit down with Sean Fields from Gear Aid and talk about what sustainability in the outdoor industry really means. Many brands have built upon that idea, but what does it actually mean?", "podcast_length": "44:24"}, {"id": "1573dda1-3c50-41f5-b83e-d7f2c993a211", "episode_id": "b52ccfcd-175d-4353-bfe6-3329bcfefa6b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4824", "chunk_index": 4, "content": "Sean Fields (06:50): All of us had that opportunity. So I had one perspective. We hired a president to come onto the, I think it was about two years ago, Clark Campbell. And he's been really a go getter in that respect from Seattle and from outdoor research. So he's got an ability to really see the company in a different way and to push us in new directions that really elevate us from a business standpoint. And so he and I work together and I say we partner together. Sometimes it's battles, but honestly that's kind of our roles is that he's so gifted in operations and product management and even navigating large sales programs. And I come more from the brand side and design and the emotive side. So we balance each other out, and I appreciate his perspective on things and he does mine. So I think we work well together in that regard and keep pushing the brand even through really hard conversations when we're have different ideas of what might be the solution.\n\nCole Heilborn (08:08): Yeah. How would you describe a brand in a simple way? Because it can be a complicated thing. It's got a lot of moving parts. If you had to boil it down, what is it?", "token_estimate": 291, "speakers": ["Sean Fields", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "06:50", "end_timestamp": "08:08", "podcast_index": null, "episode_name": "Ep 2: Sean Fields | Sustainability in the Outdoor Industry | Gear Aid", "slug": "sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "guest_name": null, "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "In this episode, I sit down with Sean Fields from Gear Aid and talk about what sustainability in the outdoor industry really means. Many brands have built upon that idea, but what does it actually mean?", "podcast_length": "44:24"}, {"id": "529c777b-ee5d-4be7-8ff9-9f63a87b2099", "episode_id": "b52ccfcd-175d-4353-bfe6-3329bcfefa6b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4824", "chunk_index": 5, "content": "Sean Fields (08:21): It is so many different parts. Historically, the word brand came from brander. It was meant to burn. And as that migrated through history, it started to move from just ownership into quality. And then all these attributes started to be built upon it. And so now you look at brands and they're so complex and they're so diverse, and the expectation that's put on a brand to be all, do all and still make money, it's a challenge. And so I think it's good because from my standpoint, a brand, from a simple standpoint, it's defining who you are. So if we personalize it, just saying, Hey, it's my personality. It's all the aspects of my personality, it's my history, it's my future, it's my likes, it's my dislikes, it's all those things. And then you try to put those in through a business perspective. But it's still, when you think about how consumers look at brands, really, they want to identify, and it comes down to the word love. (09:35): I love this brand because they identify aspects of the brand that identify with their life and their values and what they love to do. So there's the connection from my perspective is that there's a lot of data and there's a lot of rationale that you can look to a brand of, it does these things for me and I'm saving money or I'm getting my value, but that still is what I call a love language. And so for me, connecting to users and connecting to consumers and customers in the way that gets that emotive trigger, that's all the way down through the line. You have to do that all the way down through distribution, through retail, through D two C, all these facets to tug on the heartstrings of consumers in the way that identifies with them. And we're not going to be the do all be all right? (10:39): We only have a market that is specific to outdoor gear. However, we believe that everybody has the ability to get outside and to use that to renew their heart, soul, and mind. And when you get outside and you start to do these things, you start to get gear, you start to want to do more, and you start to progress and you have failures. And so for us, failure literally is where we show up when a piece of gear fails, whether that's not waterproof anymore or it's got a hole in it, or the leather's all cracked and your boots, that's where we show up. So I think it's a beautiful analogy to speaking to failure is progress. Failure is growth and failure as the stories that consumers then look at their gear and be like, oh, I remember when that happened. Let me tell you the", "token_estimate": 636, "speakers": ["Sean Fields"], "start_timestamp": "08:21", "end_timestamp": "08:21", "podcast_index": null, "episode_name": "Ep 2: Sean Fields | Sustainability in the Outdoor Industry | Gear Aid", "slug": "sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "guest_name": null, "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "In this episode, I sit down with Sean Fields from Gear Aid and talk about what sustainability in the outdoor industry really means. Many brands have built upon that idea, but what does it actually mean?", "podcast_length": "44:24"}, {"id": "57e965cc-de8c-4082-8732-6ce78e620c54", "episode_id": "b52ccfcd-175d-4353-bfe6-3329bcfefa6b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4824", "chunk_index": 6, "content": "Speaker 3 (11:35): Story. And\n\nSean Fields (11:36): Then the beers crack and you tell about the stories. So that's where I really love about, that's what I love about our brand is that we just kind of happen to fall into that. And there's lots of stories. There's lots of love. People are passionate about our brand, sadly, but also opportunistically. A lot of people don't know who we are. They know our products. But pushing the Gear aid name, that's what our whole goal is now, is to push the gear aid name and everything points to that. So there's a lot of work that has been done, but there's even more work to still be done.\n\nCole Heilborn (12:14): Yeah. Well, there always seems to be, it's never ending cycle. Do you have any gear that you look at that's tattered and patched and repaired that you look at and you're like, man, this is a good story behind it? Or you have anything personally that you crack beers to?", "token_estimate": 231, "speakers": ["Speaker 3", "Sean Fields", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "11:35", "end_timestamp": "12:14", "podcast_index": null, "episode_name": "Ep 2: Sean Fields | Sustainability in the Outdoor Industry | Gear Aid", "slug": "sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "guest_name": null, "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "In this episode, I sit down with Sean Fields from Gear Aid and talk about what sustainability in the outdoor industry really means. Many brands have built upon that idea, but what does it actually mean?", "podcast_length": "44:24"}, {"id": "7db1615c-6972-4462-aa74-75cfb81df8c0", "episode_id": "b52ccfcd-175d-4353-bfe6-3329bcfefa6b", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4824", "chunk_index": 7, "content": "Sean Fields (12:34): I personally, I have a pair of Fry cowboy boots. My dad had a pair and I loved those boots. And so I went out and bought a pair, and I've had those for probably close to 15 years. And the cool thing is that what I love about leather is that with age, it actually looks better. And if you take care of it, it starts to crack, moisturize it. You take care of it, fix the soles, those can last a lifetime. So that's one piece of outdoor gear that I love. Outside of that, I do have, we are not into making bicycles or doing repairs for bicycles, but again, I had, my dad's bike was 1965 rally that he gave to me, and then I turned it into a single speed. And if that got stolen, I'd be devastated. I have all my other bikes that I just bought, whatever. But that one is very, very special. So the renewal aspect of taking something and making it last longer, I mean, you look at what I would call the retro movement. Retro is like this moving window, but the authentic axes that are being produced and sold, they're expensive, but man, you take care of it, that's an heirloom item, (14:00): And that can be passed down. So I think that there's this revival of things that are now being passed down that are extremely valuable because they have the stories embedded with them and because they were built well. So I like to buy things once if possible, and take care of it as long as I can. It's just my personal belief. But I think it's also something that at Gear Aid, we believe that 100%. So we partner with brands that make really great quality stuff, but also we don't say, oh, we're only going to sell to a certain demographic or whatever. It's basically anybody that works or plays outside, we're going to be there for them. So thankfully, our products are affordable. Most of our products are under 10 bucks, and you can fix jackets from head to toe, basically take care of gear.", "token_estimate": 476, "speakers": ["Sean Fields"], "start_timestamp": "12:34", "end_timestamp": "12:34", "podcast_index": null, "episode_name": "Ep 2: Sean Fields | Sustainability in the Outdoor Industry | Gear Aid", "slug": "sean-fields-sustainability-in-the-outdoor-industry-gear-aid-2f945", "web