s to a certain audience, right? Calling out, Hey, sprout Associates, you guys matter to us because of X, Y, and z Whole Foods. Being able to run specific campaigns based on these individuals I think is incredibly powerful. And then of course, that's an input to what they're trying to do, but also being able to leverage those outputs of the consumer generated content that they're producing for 'em, right? Going in, leveraging those, commenting on those, the reviews, we've talked about these things before, but just all these different ways to kind of have that catered custom experience is really at a core what's valuable for building that relationship as opposed to having a generic YouTube video that touches every single consumer under the sun. I think they like to be recognized. They'd like to have that experience that they can't find anywhere else. You can't find on the website, you can't find on the YouTube channel, you can't find it. And the retail training, if you can have that specific custom experience, that goes a long way.\n\nBecky Little (00:38:24): And of course I'm biased, but when you think about social platforms and somebody who has a voice and an audience, they can go spew whatever they're going to spew, tag a brand and hope that the brand sees it and engages. But when they come to Expert Voice, it's a marketplace to engage with all the brands they care about the most. That's why they're here. That's why they come there. So they get access to purchase the products they need and to get more information when they need it. And the brands are there to listen to and connect with experts. So I mean, there's no other platform where they can get that experience for all the brands they care about the most.", "token_estimate": 487, "speakers": ["Alex Willie", "Becky Little"], "start_timestamp": "00:37:10", "end_timestamp": "00:38:24", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "dce22a30-87bd-4568-833a-cc540f6caf90", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 24, "content": "Alex Willie (00:39:01): And I think I'll add just to the audience portion of that, the experts, it's a different audience. These are the gear nerds, these are the gearhead. They're like the three of us here. I know we're all gearheads, right? We want to know every little thing there is about a product. And so the brand is able to speak differently to that individual as opposed to what their general broad marketing might need to be. So I think it gives this incredible opportunity for the brand to really get into the weeds, get granular about, let's hear from the designer, the product designer, about why they added this feature to that product, or let's hear from the CEO or founder of the core reasons of what drives the company to do what they do today. Getting a peek behind the current is incredibly powerful.", "token_estimate": 205, "speakers": ["Alex Willie"], "start_timestamp": "00:39:01", "end_timestamp": "00:39:01", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "dda60f4a-1ceb-4217-885b-ee43320f2eb4", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 25, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:39:55): So this entire conversation, you've just got me thinking about the power of people and what a group of advocates can do for a brand. And I guess this is, maybe you guys probably think about this every day, but at least in my world, we do video and film production, and so often we're brought in with brands or agencies and we were part of our assets that we create are part of the digital marketing funnel or the sales process. And so we're out there creating assets for those brands. And so I don't often think about the customer and using the customer as your advocate, at least in this level of detail. And I'm thinking about a couple of years ago when I bought my mountain bike, I bought a specialized status and it was this bike. It is a bike that it was kind of like under the radar specialized, didn't really talk about it, it was direct at the time. (00:40:56): I think it still is. It was direct to retail and there was only a few articles online that would talk about it, but there was kind of this underground movement of this new bike that had hit the store, the shop, and it was very affordable. It was super specked out and for bang for buck, it was a really solid bike. And I am thinking about that experience in myself purchasing that bike and seeing a friend who was riding that bike and being like, where'd you get that? And he's like, oh, it's kind of this, not exclusive, but it's kind of like this insider track bike that's just come out and you got to go talk to this specific bike shop if you want to find one. And the entire experience that I had purchasing this bike was, I think I looked at one Pink bike article, but everything else was from my friend on the hill to the bike, the bike rep down at the store, and now I'm a huge advocate for the bike. I see people on the trail and they're like, what is that? And they're like, oh, this is the status. And they're like, oh, I've heard about that. And I don't know. I'm thinking, what if you could design an entire product marketing experience solely through word of mouth, solely through customers and advocates, and could you just eliminate entirely the digital marketing side of it and create this underground swell of enthusiasm for a product?", "token_estimate": 562, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:39:55", "end_timestamp": "00:39:55", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "7abd26ec-9c0d-4016-a9ec-f6e3fabd00b6", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 26, "content": "Alex Willie (00:42:24): Who led the charge for that status? It was Lucas Shaw. It was Walker Shaw. It was the guys that were racing the Pro GRTs at the time. The other bike was the demo that was their flag flagship downhill bike. So everyone was going, oh, if I'm going to get a downhill bike from specialized, I'm going to get the demo. But they were trying to, how do we position this other bike as just as credible as the demo, just potentially maybe for the budget conscious or for someone that doesn't need a full on World Cup down a race bike. And so putting my lens on now in terms, what did specialized do? What was that 10 years ago, they had the people maybe not in the World Cup. I know they had a couple guys in the World Cup racing it, but every national round I knew I was racing 'em, right? (00:43:15): Lucas Shaw, these guys would come out on the status and everyone was scratching their head, why are they having 'em on a status instead of a demo? And sure enough, they're crushing it. And so you're like, that is how you build credibility, but you get those kind of micro influencers to be able to add some legs and some muscle to the product. I think to your point, it adds a lot of that underground kind of movement. How do you build the hype train and get it going, get other people talking about it? And as you saw firsthand about what bike's in your garage right now, it was effective.", "token_estimate": 352, "speakers": ["Alex Willie"], "start_timestamp": "00:42:24", "end_timestamp": "00:42:24", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "854376b0-0f58-4d96-8d68-081f8d419e67", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 27, "content": "Becky Little (00:43:52): And I'm dumbfounded. It's amazing because one of the projects I've gotten to work on in the last couple of years is helping brands with a better product launch program and how many brands put all this effort into researching and building a product, and then they're so excited to get it to market, they just dump it in the marketplace and then launch an advertising campaign and you're like, gosh, you have missed such an opportunity to build that underground swell of energy and excitement and also a little insider knowledge from the brand to make sure it really is being received like you thought it would before you dump all the rest of your marketing dollars against it. If you could curate this audience of the people who are going to influence your consumer and get it into their hands before everyone else so that they start talking about it and get really excited about it, how amazing is that for a brand? And there's programs out there depending on what kinds of things you're looking for, but there's an opportunity I think for brands to do so much more to have the status type of success,\n\nAlex Willie (00:44:53): Pun pun unintended,\n\nBecky Little (00:44:57): That was totally not intended.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:45:01): Why should in today's world or brands or just pumping out content and talking about themselves, why should consumers continue to trust what brands are saying about themselves?", "token_estimate": 358, "speakers": ["Becky Little", "Alex Willie", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:43:52", "end_timestamp": "00:45:01", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "81ba11c6-b122-4d71-8728-4a89bf9dc79d", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 28, "content": "Alex Willie (00:45:15): No, that's an interesting question, right? No one can say what the brand is saying is not impactful. It is, right? But I think some of the most, if you think through, and I can't think of any specific marketing examples right now, but I've been influenced in the sense of if a marketer or a brand is saying, go ask X, Y, and Z, or this is what this person has a say, snowbird, right? They did a cool marketing campaign where they advertised a one star review too steep, too much powder wasn't fun. Let others speak on your behalf. And I think it goes, it's more powerful than Snowbird saying, this is how many inches of snow we get each winter. This is how many runs we have open, this is X, Y, and Z. But I think those have been pretty powerful or pretty powerful campaigns that I've seen.\n\nBecky Little (00:46:15): And I think the brands are always going to have a voice. They're always going to have a role in the consumer decision. I'm not saying advertising needs to go away. There's a role for creating awareness, but I think what consumers are going to be looking to brands for are the tech specs. They want to make sure that they understand how big the frame is that what kind of components are on the bike or whatever it is that you're researching and looking for. But when it comes to actually understanding who it's a fit for and why someone might use it, they're going to want to lean on people with that firsthand experience, even if that firsthand experience was provided by the brand. And even what they're saying it was education was provided by the brand just by virtue of sitting and having conversations with you today. Now I trust what you have to say about podcast equipment over anything. I'll read anywhere else.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:47:01): Right. Interesting. I'm curious how bias affects people's reviews and people's reception of reviews. Is that something you guys talk about? Is that something that is discussed or is that kind of a non-factor", "token_estimate": 499, "speakers": ["Alex Willie", "Becky Little", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:45:15", "end_timestamp": "00:47:01", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "fde87c2d-ee1c-46ca-b3fa-0846e1b78d34", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 29, "content": "Alex Willie (00:47:26): Bias by, I'm to think of in my day to day, a potential bias could be who this individual is. For example, if you're looking for your next pair of skis and you hear what someone from the military or law enforcement has to say, maybe you're not putting the same weight as you might as a ski instructor or snowboard instructor or an avalanche, an area two instructor, whatever it might be. That's where my head goes when you're talking about bias of who is this person and why does their opinion matter? I think that goes a long way in terms of the credibility. But to our earlier question at the beginning of the podcast, right? Why does it matter? Is it the 401st review or is it who is saying what? I think it just ties back to that as to kind of alleviate some of that bias. I think just understanding who that person is and how they use the product will help navigate away from some of those potential hangups.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:48:33): And I guess maybe to further explore my own question, when I'm thinking about bias, we talked about the sponsored post, and that inherently creates bias, whether you're aware of it or not. And I guess I'm thinking about it from the athlete perspective. A lot of brands have athletes, and one of the jobs of athletes is to get out there and talk about the product and share the product on the hill. Or if the local Craig do athletes of a brand, how do they stack up when it compares to their voice validating products? Is there bias that is a factor in the purchasing process when athletes are the ambassador? I realize I've just kind of clarified my question more for you, Alex, but took me two questions to get to the question I was really trying to ask.", "token_estimate": 430, "speakers": ["Alex Willie", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:47:26", "end_timestamp": "00:48:33", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "05f06832-c4ed-4c98-9b70-7ebdf1a7456e", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 30, "content": "Alex Willie (00:49:28): Thanks, that's helpful. I'll put myself now in the consumer shoes, if I were to see a Joey Schuler doing an Instagram post with a competitive cyclist, hashtag sponsored, right? As a consumer, yeah, I understand he's doing this cool adventure. He is got this amazing content, he's posting it. Does that make me want to go buy stuff from competitive cyclists? Maybe not. I love Joey and him and I are good friends and he's producing amazing stuff. But I think as an athlete, if I were to see another buddy of mine that's still racing for sake of name for Shane Leslie, if he's out racing and he's being a hundred percent transparent about, man, this is what happened this weekend. I had Arai failure. I'm a Shram athlete, Orano athlete, and sharing the highs and lows of, it's not all just perfect. I think as a consumer I resonate more with that. (00:50:29): Like, oh, well that makes sense about why this broke and the circumstances that this was in to make that failure happen. Because he says, that doesn't mean I'll never buy a shram derailer again, but I'm thinking like, oh, well man, he was using in this use case every other post. He's stoked on how smooth it is. And so as a consumer, it helps getting both sides of the story a little bit. And I think we see the same thing with product reviews. A consumer will get the same amount of info and data and kind of purchase power from a negative review as they do from a positive review, if not more. And I think some smart brands are displaying these negative reviews in addition to the positive reviews. You need to have that transparency. As a consumer, I like to see it. I want to see why it didn't work for this person. And I think it helps alleviate some of the bias that you were talking about of not just hashtag sponsored, not just getting all this free stuff and everything, unicorns and rainbows, because I got it for free. So that's just my 2 cents.", "token_estimate": 485, "speakers": ["Alex Willie"], "start_timestamp": "00:49:28", "end_timestamp": "00:49:28", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "9727e862-b1d9-43a0-bee6-935d310cc2ca", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 31, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:51:39): Yeah. Interesting. So what does the future look like if consumers are smarter, getting smarter, and the value of word of mouth is that much stronger? What does that look like for the future of Expert Voice? How are you guys adapting? How are you growing and evolving?\n\nBecky Little (00:51:58): I think for Expert Voice, we're constantly thinking about how can we help brands get recommendations from the people consumers trust for advice in more places? So we've been doing it in the retail setting for a long time. We've been doing it through word of mouth, through products, heating to pros for a long time. We launched the ability to influence what people are seeing, experiencing the e-commerce space, and we're continue to explore how do we integrate that further? We have a display they offer, but we let them sync or they can sync over all of their expert recommendations through review providers like Bazaar Voice and Yacht Post, so that at least they know the Empower reviews that in their stream of customer reviews, there are going to be credible reviews featured there. Where do we go next to help enhance that experience? Experts are posting pictures and content on the platform, and how can we make it easier for brands to share? (00:52:51): We just released this fall. The ability to make that easier for them to download those. Some of them are pre-formatted so they can get not just the image, the expert shares, but the picture of the product that they're using, and then an actual picture of the expert's profile. So when they go to share that online, they can share all of the background behind it. How can we make that more seamless for brands currently, experts, when they share inside the platform, it's a gated experience, but how can we make it easier for experts that are sharing all this great knowledge for them to share it on a brand's behalf? And then I think we're going to see what comes next. What's the latest platform that comes about next that brands want to be partaking in? We didn't collect video on our platform until just this summer, and now experts can post video on the platform, which we all know video's not going anywhere anytime soon. So how can we make that better and easier for brands to capitalize on? And I think also, how do we keep making the experience? How do we keep making sure that the expert experience is top notch so that there aren't other places they want to go, that they do keep expert voice top of mind for where they go to connect with brands.", "token_estimate": 635, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Becky Little"], "start_timestamp": "00:51:39", "end_timestamp": "00:51:58", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "c2348f37-e05c-4964-ad31-8c2190d2db9f", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 32, "content": "Alex Willie (00:54:03): Yeah, I think that last point is so important. How do we continue to get the right people in the platform and making sure that we're keeping up with that, right? That's something we put such a focus and emphasis on, is making sure not only the correct people are in, but man every year, are we re-verifying, making sure that credential is still valid, that they're still at that retail store. Are they still worthy to have this kind of experience that these brands are wanting to create with these individuals? So super excited for what's to come Maddox or voice in the next year and a half. So I think, yeah, we've got a bright future ahead of us,\n\nBecky Little (00:54:44): And I would say as a brand, if you're thinking about how do I do this better? If you're just thinking about pro programs and how do I get more people wearing my stuff and talking about my stuff or using my stuff, you could be getting so much more out of that investment. So how do you make sure your dollars are limited? Right? Margins are thin. So if you're going to go and bother to seed product to people, make sure you're getting 'em in the right hands and make sure you're getting the most from that, that you're getting feedback from 'em and outputs that the brand can use, and that you have the visibility to know what they're saying about your products. It's not just going out into the void.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:55:18): Yeah. For both of you, two side question. What's the biggest opportunity for brands in the future and what's of the biggest obstacles or challenges that they have to navigate surrounding everything we've discussed today?", "token_estimate": 412, "speakers": ["Alex Willie", "Becky Little", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:54:03", "end_timestamp": "00:55:18", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "10478a57-166e-461c-b33a-83c01fd65120", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 33, "content": "Alex Willie (00:55:36): I think I'll start with the last one. The biggest obstacle. I think more and more brands are figuring this out. I think they're realizing that this is how we speak to consumers now, right? Consumers are getting smarter. How do I stand out? And so I think before and even what, a couple years ago, you can have a handful of brands in each category that are doing these things really well. And they're the clear market leaders because they're creating these experiences, they're having these brain advocates speak on their behalf, and that's how they're having the growth. (00:56:11): And then something that I'm super excited about is just to continue to grow our platform offering. I think the last three years on Expert Voice have been incredible in terms of what our product team has designed, and they've given us such a great platform to continue to optimize and refine moving forward that, I mean, we're small enough and agile enough that every little feedback we get from a client, it will legit go to the lead product designer for that product and be like, yeah, maybe next quarter that'll be something that will be live. So just small things like optimizing. To Becky's point about videos, a brand probably is like, I would love to be able to capture video recommendations. Okay, we'll build it. And so I think we're in a really unique position as a business to be able to do all those little things that brands are requesting and see a tremendous amount of value in.", "token_estimate": 375, "speakers": ["Alex Willie"], "start_timestamp": "00:55:36", "end_timestamp": "00:55:36", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "d5996780-7c6b-45f7-baac-badedaacbbc3", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 34, "content": "Becky Little (00:57:09): I think brands' biggest opportunity is this idea of, I mean, community marketing is something that you hear out in the marketplace all the time now how are brands building communities? And I think the brands that are going to win are the brands that are really thoughtful about how they're doing it and that they're building customized community. That's not just a one size fits all approach. How ecstatic would I be to be in a customer community of female at home, passionate cooks where I got to connect with others? Maybe it might need to be female, but whatever the audience is that you could fit your niche customer approach and that that's going to just build you twice as much loyalty and advocacy as anything else you could do versus feeling like you're just part of some anonymous big group. I think the biggest challenge for brands is figuring out how do they prioritize that initiative and how do they put people leading those charges? (00:58:03): They're so ingrained of how they've always been doing something, their tactics that they're pretty sure are winning or maybe are winning and that they have to reprioritize the resources to invest in building relationships. That doesn't happen overnight. I think that's probably one of our biggest lessons we've learned as we've been rolling out some of these products is that it's not like you just flip a switch and magic happens tomorrow, right? It is a long-term game where the brand has to invest the time and the energy into cultivating and fostering relationships. And that doesn't mean they have to call me every morning and say, Hey, good morning, how are you? But that they do have to have a consistent strategy to keep people engaged and excited and interested in what they're doing.", "token_estimate": 445, "speakers": ["Becky Little"], "start_timestamp": "00:57:09", "end_timestamp": "00:57:09", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "38aa9bff-3578-402b-a592-ef2447d049e4", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 35, "content": "Cole Heilborn (00:58:43): Yeah. Yeah. Well, I said it earlier, but all of this sounds so simple, but it's not. And there's a lot behind the scenes and there's so many different ways to break all this apart, but at its core, we all just care what our friends think about whatever they're using, and that's the recommendation that seems to weigh the strongest. I mean, yeah, actually that sounds kind of nice, not having to go online to find a review or find feedback. If you could just always have a friend who knew the best scoop on whatever you're trying to purchase, whatever product you're trying to find, but that's not the reality and you need resources out there, and it sounds like that's what you guys provide. And then, and it sounds like there's a lot of opportunity.\n\nBecky Little (00:59:38): We think, so we're really excited about it,\n\nAlex Willie (00:59:42): And it's fun. It's a fun problem to solve. You're able to get creative with it. You're able to try different things. And to be an earlier point about being agile as a business, the community tool, super exciting. This product sampling campaign tool, super exciting. Being able to get product in the hands of individuals before we go to market with that, right? Let's get feedback. Let's get user generated content, let's get recommendations so we know what that's going to look like moving forward. I just think there's so much power in that it gets us fired up in the morning and it's fun to go to work, so there's no complaints from this side of the Zoom box.\n\nBecky Little (01:00:23): And it's fun to connect with brands to see their authentic reactions when they're like, oh my gosh, if I could just find one person that looks like this, I would give them my product. You're like, well, you've got 15 of them right over there. For a brand to say, gosh, I had this community of retail sales associates from the pet store, and now I have frontline inside of what's happening on the store floor and how my displays are set up. I couldn't do that at scale before. It is just so fun to see how brands are gathering new insights, learnings, and applying them to make their business better.", "token_estimate": 540, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Becky Little", "Alex Willie"], "start_timestamp": "00:58:43", "end_timestamp": "01:00:23", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "81e8c791-333b-4fa2-90bc-dfbfedb2c7df", "episode_id": "380ad7c4-5f33-48eb-a50a-66f5c54ab0c6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489f", "chunk_index": 36, "content": "Cole Heilborn (01:01:04): Well, Alex and Becky, I want to thank you for taking the time to chat. If folks have questions about Expert Voice, about any of the services that you offer, where can people go to either get connected with the company or with you both personally?\n\nBecky Little (01:01:18): I know we're both on LinkedIn, so feel free to hit us up there, but expert voice.com, there's a Let's Talk button and that'll get you to the right place. And if you're an expert too, if you're thinking, Hey, I'm somebody who should be in that network, same thing. They'll take you through the onboarding process. You'll have a chance to upload what we call your affiliation or your credentials to say, this is why I deserve insider access, and we're happy to welcome you to the platform.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:01:46): Okay, awesome.\n\nAlex Willie (01:01:48): And I'm happy to, I bet you, I don't want to speak for Becky too, but man, any direct questions too, man, hit me up on LinkedIn. I'm more than happy to dive in, set up a phone call with a potential brand experts helping them get through the funnel. It doesn't matter. Becky and I are happy to be a resource for folks.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:02:06): Awesome. Well, thank you both for taking the time to chat. This has got me some new ideas, new topics to think about for this week. So I want to thank you again for taking the time and sharing a little bit of your guys' world. There's a lot of exciting things.\n\nBecky Little (01:02:20): Thanks for having us, Colt. It's fun to hear the stories you share with our community, so look forward to it.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:02:25): Yeah,\n\nAlex Willie (01:02:25): Thanks so much, Cole. It was a pleasure.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:02:28): All right. Have a good rest of your day. Take care. Okay, you as well. We'll see you.", "token_estimate": 452, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Becky Little", "Alex Willie"], "start_timestamp": "01:01:04", "end_timestamp": "01:02:28", "podcast_index": 122, "episode_name": "EP 122: How to Build Loyal and True Fans | Alex Willie & Becky Lyttle | ExpertVoice", "slug": "ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-122-how-to-build-loyal-and-true-fans-alex-willie-becky-lyttle-expertvoice", "guest_name": "Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle", "guest_title": null, "categories": ["brand"], "short_description": "On this episode of the show, we have two guests! Alex Willie and Becky Lyttle from ExpertVoice join us to tell us how to build loyal and true fans, the importance of brand advocacy, and building your brand community.", "podcast_length": "1:04"}, {"id": "ef2099ab-7629-4880-b88e-4802987d79a3", "episode_id": "d3aec1b6-3937-4ab3-9322-115d294e235f", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4922", "chunk_index": 0, "content": "Matt Powell (00:00.27): I would tell you the underlying part of the business is actually pretty healthy. But there are issues that we're facing around inventory, around product, around the way we bring product to market, the way we address our customers, the total available customer base that are making us not so good right now. So it was a tough year. I think 24 is going to be a tough year. But I do again feel the underlying piece of the business is still solid. ‍\n\nCole Heilborn (00:34.606): Welcome to the Backcountry Marketing podcast. I'm your host, Cole Heilborn. On this podcast, you'll hear from leaders in the outdoor marketing industry discuss the gritty details of their work, as well as the latest challenges and lessons they're learning along the way. If you want to hone your craft and become a stronger marketer, then this podcast is for you. ‍ This podcast is produced by Port Side Productions, an outdoor film production company based in the Pacific Northwest. Welcome to the Backcountry Marketing Podcast. Today, I'm sitting down with Matt Powell. Matt, you've been in the industry for 51 years now, all across the retail world. But today, you currently work with SpurWink as an advisor. You study data and trends and help all of us make sense of where the industry is going, what's changing, what's evolving. And you've got some really fascinating insights to share with us today. So welcome to the show. ‍ Matt Powell Thanks very much for having me. I'm excited to do this. ‍ Cole Heilborn So if you could give us an opening statement, I'm going to limit you to 60 seconds. From your perspective, what is the state of our industry today? ‍ Matt Powell I would tell you, the underlying part of the business is actually pretty healthy. But there are issues that we're facing around inventory, around product, around the way we bring the product to market, the way we address our customers and the total available customer base that are making us not so good right now. So it was a tough year. I think 24 is going to be a tough year. But I do, again, feel the underlying piece of the business is still solid. ‍ Cole Heilborn Well, I'm excited to dive into this. I think there's a lot of talk out there about the state of the industry. Some people are very pessimistic, some are incredibly optimistic. And I'm excited to, as I said, kind of to dig into this and evaluate what are the trends that you're noticing. What are the opportunities that exist that maybe we aren't considering? But before we go there, I'd love to back up a little bit. And 51 years of retail experience is, I can only imagine the amount of stories that you have, but I'd love if you could give us kind of the quick background on yourself. Kind of what your expertise is and some of the work that you've done ‍ Matt Powell Yeah, so I started out my career in the department store business actually I spent many years and almost 20 years with one retailer which in today's world is completely unheard of and in the early 90s there was sort of an implosion around the department store industry that created giant retailers like Macy's and A whole lot of us got to find something new to do I then had crossed over to the sports world. I worked for Sport Mart in Chicago, which at the time was the largest big box sporting goods retailer in the country, later acquired by Sports Authority and now out of business. I left there, went to work for a sneaker superstore. We carried 1,500 styles of sneakers and I don't recommend anybody do that either. That company was sold and they wanted some of us to go to Alabama and I didn't see myself in Alabama so I stepped away. I worked for Models for a year. I tried consulting for a year and failed horribly at it and then I got a call to take what was the second coolest job I had after this one. I was a dot com in the early days of the dot com business called MVP.com that was started by Michael Jordan, John Elway, and Wayne Gretzky. And I got to meet those guys who work with them. But like a lot of early .coms, that one burned down. And I tried my hand at consulting again, and I had met a couple of hedge fund managers when I was at SportMart, who would call me periodically to get my opinion on what was happening in the sports industry. And when I said I was consulting, they said, hey, we'll pay you to do research. So. 23, 24 years later, I'm still doing research on the industry. So I was working for myself in the very beginning. I had an affiliation with Sports One Source, which publishes Sporting Goods Business Magazine. I left there 10 years ago, went to work for NPD, which is a large market research firm covering all of sports and that company was sold and then merged with another company I left a year ago and started my own thing. And I'm also having an affiliation with a group called BCE Consulting, which is where I'm doing most of my work. And it's been a lot of fun. We're doing strategy work, merchandising work, five -year plan evaluations. We're doing some very specific market sizing kinds of work. So it's been a wide range, but really my goal was to do fun and interesting things to give back to the industry because the industry's been so good to me and to take some control over whatever my final years, and that's plural years, in the industry. I'm not going anywhere yet. I'm having too much fun. So I told somebody the other day, as long as I can remember people's names and phone numbers, I'll be fine. ‍ Cole Heilborn So when you talk about research, can you share a little more in terms of where you're finding information, what sort of information are you pulling and how are you using that to help folks? Just to provide a little context to what that means for you and your world. ‍ Matt Powell Well, when I was at NPD and prior, I actually had POS sales data that would help inform my decision making. I no longer have access to that. There are public statements that are out there from brands and retailers. Sirkana, who replaced NPD is now putting out some information so that it's in the public domain so I have access to that. There are other sources out that provide again public statements on their data and then I'm talking to a lot of brands and retailers all the time and so anecdotally I can piece together what's happening in the industry and you know I've been to this rodeo more than once so I see things coming around again that happened before. And nothing ever happens the same way twice, but there are always parallels to that. So it's really very informal today. But I talk to so many people that I really feel very well informed about what's happening in the industry. ‍ Cole Heilborn So it's not a surprise, but I think everyone understands kind of the basics of the COVID boom and then bust and kind of the downward spiral that we've been in. And that's a really common, you know, that's a common tale that everyone references. I'm curious though if you can kind of shed a little more light, maybe a little more nuance into what happened to put us where we are today, but beyond maybe just the surface-level explanation as to what 2024 looks like and how we got here. ‍ Matt Powell Sure. Well, so it, I mean, I think there's some really good things that happened to the industry during COVID. People felt safer outside. I think people wanted to get out of their houses. I think they were feeling claustrophobic, wanted to get out and recreate. And so there was a huge surge in outdoor activity that happened. And that's continued. Perhaps we're not surging, but they've remained at very high levels. I live on the Spurwink River, hence the name of my company. And there's a tremendous amount of recreation that happens on this river. Stand-up paddle, kayak of all sorts, swimming, some small watercraft. So you could see it just looking out my window that the world had changed. And on the trails and lanes around where I live, lots of people out walking, hiking, again, trying to get outside where they felt safer and to recreate. Big positive there. That caused a surge in business. The stimulus money that went out, caused a big surge in business. And it was initially a very good thing, but it's become a problem in that if you bought a big ticket item during the pandemic, a kayak, a stand-up paddleboard, a bicycle, a fire pit, you don't need another one unless you broke it or you didn't like it and wanted to get something different. So there was a huge surge during the pandemic and we've come down from that now, but we're not back to 2019 levels. And so there's more good news for the industry that longer view, we can say, hey, you know what, we're still in a pretty good place, although we are giving some of those gains back. On the negative side, a couple of things. I think the shortages that happened during the pandemic didn't give the consumer a full breadth of products to buy. And if they were in a fever to buy something, that perhaps they bought something that was above their skill level or above their needs. And when they tried to use it, they found that they couldn't use it because they didn't know how to use it. They weren't an experienced user. You know, I think some retailers oversold people product just to, to make the sale. And again, I think there's that hurt the industry. I think people who were oversold lost interest very quickly said, oh, this isn't for me, I can't do this. And so they abandoned it altogether. I have no data on this, but my sense is the secondary market has flooded with products that people tried during the pandemic and then decided they didn't want to use. And by the way, if you live in an apartment, what do you do with a stand-up paddleboard? What do you do with a kayak? I mean, you can't leave it on top of your car all year long. Well, maybe you can, but you know, there's no place to store it. So now what do I do with it? So a whole lot of things happen. ‍ Cole Heilborn I'm curious if you have any data or anything that expresses kind of the state of our industry. So I think people would say, well, it seems like there's there's kind of conflicting messages. Some people would say things are in a downward spiral. There is obviously the the report that came out last November about the industry being a trillion-dollar industry. And there's a lot of nuance there, certainly. So it seems like there's conflicting messages about how the industry is performing overall. What insight can you provide that might help us better understand what's happening? Well, I think we can look to the public companies, the large big boys out there, REIs and the VFs and so forth, Wolverine to some extent, and get a good read through on at least a part of the market. And pretty much everybody's put up some pretty disastrous numbers. That doesn't mean there aren't bright spots out there. And I think we're going to find that when we look at it, that some small retailers have done well, maybe even some larger retailers have done pretty well. Big Five, who we don't really think of as an outdoor retailer, but has actually a fairly significant portion of their business in outdoor, had a really tough quarter of California before all the snow came to California. I guess, from public companies would tell us that the business is not very good. But again, that doesn't mean there aren't bright spots. And there's another, actually there's another interesting element that I think says that probably the future is going to be better but more challenging, and that is the number of companies who are getting into the outdoor business. And I put my fake quotation marks up with that. You know, who are adding outdoor products to their assortment. Maybe they're using private label to bring in outerwear and fleece and plaid shirts and so forth. And I've had a lot of calls over the last two or three years from people with money saying, how do I get into this business? Where are the openings for me to get into this business? So the space is becoming more crowded, particularly on the apparel and footwear side. The blending of outdoor and athletic, another piece of the story here. And ultimately, I see those as good things for the industry. Anytime we're forced to be more competitive, we get better. So these are not structural issues that are putting up roadblocks into us. It's more competition. We're saying, hey, we've got to get better at what we do. So I see that as a potential bright spot for the industry. ‍ Cole Heilborn So this is what I've always wondered. How much of the decline is inflated because there was a massive surge? If we were still on track with the same growth numbers that we had in 18 and 19, would we still be in a decline, quote unquote, now? Or how much of, OK. ‍ Matt Powell No, I think what we're doing is giving back some of the business that was artificially stimulated, which was, I guess, the intent, if you will. But, you know, again, and again, people bought things they didn't need. People bought things that they don't know how to use. All of those things are weighing down on us. But, you know, if you bought a if you bought a car during the pandemic, you don't need the car right now. So it it there is definitely some give back here. But, you know, if we were at the more normalized rate, we wouldn't actually probably be as high volume numbers that we're actually at today. Are there other industries that are facing a similar trajectory or is outdoor unique in some way? No, I mean, the bike business is another one that's very, very much a parallel here. The fitness equipment business, which was terrible before the pandemic. When the pandemic hit, people couldn't go to gyms, so they went out and bought a bunch of equipment. That industry is giving back those gains as well. And frankly, even the sneaker business is not great because people filled up their closets with sneakers and you don't need another. And by the way, the marketplace hasn't brought anything new out. And maybe that's another layer on the conversation here is that, particularly in the sneaker industry, the big brands really shut down their innovation engines. And there's not a lot new out there. We look really old and tired on the floors and in sneaker stores as an example. So, you know, one of the ways we're going to get out of this is by fresh products, fresh ideas. You know, and I think embracing the family as a really viable channel here, something that the outdoor industry has kind of shunned. You know, we saw a lot of people trying to take their home into their backyard during the pandemic, again, to extend their homes and sales of things like pop -up shelters and grills and outdoor furniture and fire pits all went off the charts during the pandemic. Now, again, if you bought a fire pit or a pop-up shelter, you probably don't need another one right now, but people are outside more. And so I think that there's an opportunity to extend that as well. But I think the industry has really focused far too much on themselves as the end consumer and not really look to the much bigger marketplace, which is the family side of Outdoors. ‍ Cole Heilborn Yeah, tell me more about that. I mean, the industry is kind of notorious for trying to remain core. I think there's often been this struggle of what is outdoor? You know, what, what do we, what do we allow? What do we accept? And there's a lot of, um, I have a lot of questions about why do we put these parameters on ourselves as an ego thing? Is it a, um, you know, is it just a, are we just being gatekeepers for the sake of trying to keep our, our mountains and our places pristine? Um, but as, as you mentioned on our previous call, there's so much opportunity outside of the core and there's this struggle internal and external, I think to really like allow ourselves to embrace, you know, what is considered non-core, if you will. Can you share more about your thoughts here? ‍ Matt Powell Yeah, well, I look at the industry has always been a club, a clique, however, you want to mean girls, however, you want to describe that. But, you know, the outdoor retailer show was always people who were standing in the aisles talking about what are their latest exploits were. And that's fine. If that's what you want to be as an industry, that's fine. But you have to understand that it's finite. And it means that there are going to be limits to how much you can grow. And there are so many public companies in our space today who have to grow to satisfy the stock market and their shareholders that they have to have growth. And so to some extent, being small and I'll use the word elitist or exclusive, it argues against growth. So if you're happy being a small company, a big fish in a small pond, good for you. But you're never going to be Nike. And everybody has these ideas that they could be a $50 billion brand. And if you're going to be $50 billion, you've got to do a lot of more broad-based kinds of productsAnd again, there are people who are recreating today who weren't doing it before, but they're not doing a three-week pack -in. They're going out for an hour or two hours or driving to a state park and having a picnic. And that's part of the outdoor world as well. And I don't think that threatens the core in any way. And a lot of the products the core uses will never be used by this consumer. But I think everybody's after the same ultimate goal, which is to get outside and have fun and be healthy. ‍ Cole Heilborn Yeah, what's the risk then? Like, why is the industry hesitant? ‍ Matt Powell Well, I mean, part of it is that the industry is an echo chamber. OK, and so they they're talking to themselves about topics that they concern themselves with. And they don't really understand the broader market. I remember I did an address to the OR show 10, maybe 12 years ago, a study the National Sporting Association did a study on Hispanics and the outdoor business and noted that Hispanics do things as families. They like fishing as in recreation. I don't remember all the points of it, but the big point of the white paper was there's a huge business opportunity the industry's overlooking. And so the industry talks about being more inclusive, but it tends to be more inclusive doing the core stuff as opposed to being inclusive doing the more family-oriented stuff. So it's not sexy It's not dangerous. It's not it's not elitist it but there's that's where the business is for in that example, like how big is the opportunity the Hispanic population represents, do you know I? Don't recall I think we'd have to dig up that white paper again, but there was a significant economic opportunity around that business so You know, I think that's really the question I think the industry needs to confront is, are we willing to not be so core? Are we willing to have a bigger tent to let people come in and be part of this industry? How do we do that? How do we encourage people to get outside and support all the things that this industry supports? ‍ Cole Heilborn I mean, that's a conversation that we've had many times on this show. Folks are asking themselves, how do we be how do we reflect our core? How do we honor them and, you know, who we were, where our brand started, our foundation, but then how do we bring in people who don't look like that, who aren't, you know, somebody and accomplishing FKTs and all of the ridiculous things that folks do. So there are conversations that are happening, but what do you think, what will it take for things to really change, to go from beyond conversations to action to actually making an effort. ‍ Matt Powell Well, look, I think if a retailer is successful and is able to execute against this, I think that sends a message to the rest of the industry. I think if you look at a retail like LL Bean, as an example, my neighbor up the road here 45 minutes away, it's a very big tent there. While they do sell products for more extreme activities, they sell an awful lot of products that are just for general use. And they're very, very successful as a retailer. So again, if we're gonna spend all of our time looking down our noses at people who aren't as core as I am, I think that's a problem. But if we open up and say, hey, there's some business being done here and it's good business why wouldn't we get after it? One of the things you brought up was the hesitancy for the industry to sell their products in big box stores. Again, it probably feels like a conflict of, well, we can't we can't sell on a Target or a Walmart because that's not, you know, that's not special. That's not who we are. Is that a part of the opportunity as well that you see to reach beyond the specialty retailer? Absolutely. Now, look. I understand a lot of the product that the industry sells is very technical. You have to be trained in how to sell it. You have to be trained in how to use it in order for you to be happy with that. So not every product can go into a big self-serve retailer, but a kayak, sure, why not? Again, a fire pit, a pop -up shelter. I mean, I got to tell you Walmart sells a lot of pop-up shelters out there. So it’s wouldn't mean everything that the industry sells goes there, but I think there are an awful lot of products that could be there. And maybe it has to be sub-branded if you want to try to protect yourself there, although you're giving up some brand equity. If you've spent all your career or your lifetime of your brand building up the equity of that brand, and then you come up with a sub-brand that doesn't mean anything, you've given up some leverage there. Look, I think a lot of brands have figured out how they can be in more than one place. You look at, say, Nike and how many different kinds of retailers they sell their products to. And they've been successful in being able to segment that product around all those different channels. Yeah, and I don't know that they've diluted their brand equity as much as people might think they are, based on how diverse their product really is and all the corners of the world that it reaches. ‍ Cole Heilborn Do you feel like this downturn, is it healthy? Do you look at this as a good thing? ‍ Matt Powell Yeah, I do. Again, I think if you take the longer view, we really aren't in a downturn. We had it up and down, but we're still way above where we started. And I think, again, side effect of it, there are more people out recreating. The park visits are up, and the people spending time outside is going up. And it's probably weeded out some weak players and you never like to see anybody lose their business or lose their job. But you know, I think weeding out is always a good thing for the overall business. So in many ways, I think this has been healthy. ‍ Cole Heilborn As you look around, what questions are you asking yourself? Are there things that you're unsure about? Things that you're trying to answer these days? ‍ Matt Powell Well, I think, yes, I'm always trying to understand what's happening. And I challenge myself every day on the assumptions that I've made and the conclusions I've come to. I think you have to do that as an analyst. If you went outside, I got all the answers, and I don't need to learn anymore. You're out of business. So I'm constantly questioning myself. I don't know that I have a big thing that's troubling me, but I think I try to keep a very open mind about where I am and what I'm seeing. But look, we need freshness here. We need new ideas. We need new approaches. And in some cases, we've taken things as far as we can take them. We can't make shoes much lighter than they are today. We're not going to have any big breakthroughs there. We can't make a puffer jacket any lighter than it is. I mean incrementally lighter, yes, but breakthrough lighter, no. But you know, where's the pickleball of outdoors as an example, okay? What's the next big thing that people are going to gravitate to? We have some interesting things like Stanley Quentcher's that are having a moment right now, but I'm looking for more revolutionary kinds of things. Think about stand-up paddling and where it was, say, 15 years ago and where it is today and how that became a thing, going back even further with snowboarding when it first started up and how that just flipped the industry upside down. Mountains were saying, no snowboarders, only skiers, and all that silliness. But we need another big idea, I think more than anything right now to really reverse the soft spot that we're in. I know the core will always continue to cycle through new gear because people like the newest and latest thing. But has the industry become saturated? ‍ Cole Heilborn I think you mentioned at one point, our industry makes good product. It lasts a long time. It does its job. Have we just become saturated and that's part of this equation also? ‍ Matt Powell I think perhaps on the on the core side that we may be getting to the point of saturation. But on the family side, no way. There is so much more room there. So much more opportunity to, I think, to introduce consumers to being outside and other less strenuous outside activities, but nonetheless other activities. And, you know, this, I mean, one of the cool things about the outdoor industry is it's a bunch of gearheads, right? So, And even I think the family side, you know, whether, you know, the Yeti cooler run up that was so dramatic. You know, I think a lot of people who were not outdoorsmen bought Yeti coolers. And so, you know, can we do another version of that? Absolutely. So I know I think there's still a lot of run room here. ‍ Cole Heilborn Do you feel like our industry is short-sighted? Do we have a habit of not looking far enough into the future? ‍ Matt Powell Yeah, well, I think that is really impacting the entire sports industry. I think, first of all, the lead times are far too long. And so that you tend to get locked down in the process and maybe not looking ahead to the next thing. There are a lot of smaller, more entrepreneurial firms that are undercapitalized. Therefore, they have to be very careful about how they're allocating their resources, which holds us back. The bigger brands have all been really soft goods for the most part. Again, I don't know how much more innovation really can come in on the soft goods side. We certainly write fashion trends, but I don't know how we make a puffer lighter or a sneaker lighter or a boot lighter. ‍ Yeah, I think there's a certain inherent caution that has come into this industry as maybe risk -taking as the activities themselves are, the business has not been particularly ris -taking. ‍ Cole Heilborn What do you mean by that? ‍ Matt Powell Well, look, I mean people doing extreme things, they're doing dangerous things, rock climbing, solo hiking, and so forth. I mean, these are really dangerous activities that you have to have a lot of preparation a lot of courage for but then we get into the business side of things and I think people tend to be very conservative in their business practices not sure if we want to open up this retailer not sure if we want to go into this city not sure if we want to make things for the family and so I think that there's a tampening tampening down of that that that's holding us back as well. ‍ Cole Heilborn Why do you feel like that is because I'd almost I would assume that we would be a very risk calculated industry, we would know what risk to take and what to avoid. ‍ Matt Powell Yeah, you know, money does funny things to people. So, you know, I think when you're talking about my money, maybe I'm going to be a bit more conservative than I would be with somebody else's or even, or the courage that I have to tackle a really dangerous activity because I trust myself. I know what I can do and of course people make mistakes doing that as well, but I think there's a different thing when it comes to money. I think people just tend to be much more conservative there. ‍ Cole Heilborn Interesting. So to summarize, it sounds like there's a few different factors at play here that you think will help kind of right the ship or pull us out of this slump a little bit. And again, some of it sounds like it's just we're due for it based on the last few years. But to recap, it sounds like we just need to kind of ride the wave, ride it out, because it's here, it's going to be here. You just have to make things, you have to make it work. If we can find a new budding sport to kind of grow with and build upon, new product innovation, like how can the industry, how can we double down and continue to innovate? And then I guess maybe the biggest component is how can we get beyond ourselves. How can we get outside of the echo chamber and find others who don't look like us, don't act like us, who are different, but who still love getting outdoors in different ways. It sounds like that's kind of the three or four main points that you've summarized for us today. ‍ Matt Powell I think the only thing I would add is I think we need to de-risk the weather. I think we need to figure out or accept the fact that this is now the new normal, that we're not going to have cold and snowy winters. We're going to have warm and wet springs. ‍ And how do we respond to that? How do we reinvent ourselves around that? If 50% of the apparel business is outerwear and we're not gonna sell that much outerwear, how do we replace that? How do we find a spring business that can offset the loss of the winter business maybe as an idea? And so I think there needs to be a lot of thinking about how do I respond to my merchandising rather than just, I sold 5,000 jackets last year, I'm buying 5,000 jackets this year. And I'd rather figure out how do I transform this into something different, something new. ‍ Cole Heilborn Yeah, well, unfortunately, that's a topic that's bigger than any one of us to tackle, but nevertheless, something to be aware of and just observing. Matt, is there anything that we haven't discussed today that you'd like to leave our audience with? I appreciate your insight. I appreciate your perspective on some of this. Maybe one final question is, why does this matter for our audience? Why does this matter for our marketing industry? Well, look, ‍ Matt Powell I mean, I think the greatest thing about the outdoor industry is the passion of the people for the sport, for the activities that they do, for the environment, all of those things together, and people who figure out how to make a living and still supporting all of those things. And I think that's one of the great things about this industry is the passion of the people. And that's not going away. And I know I've been critical of some of the business practices perhaps, but never the passion. And I think that's one of the things that's kept this industry going. There are hardly any trade shows anymore. There are more than one trade show in the outdoor industry. And I think that speaks volume to the commitment of the community itself to want to preserve. And so I see that as a big, big plus. And again, I know I'm critical, but I'm also very in awe of the commitment of the people who are in the outdoor industry. ‍ Cole Heilborn Well, you can be critical and still want the best for everyone. Those two don't. They're not mutually exclusive. Exactly right. Matt, if folks want to find you, if they have further questions, if they want to learn a little bit more about what you're up to, where can people go to find you? ‍ Matt Powell Sure. Well, I'm on LinkedIn and I'm very active on LinkedIn. I repost a lot of stuff. I write a fair amount of things that are on there. So link me on LinkedIn. My email is matt@spurwinkriver.com And I'm easy to find. So reach out anytime. I'm always love talking and philosophizing about the industry. ‍ ‍", "token_estimate": 7958, "speakers": ["Matt Powell", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:00.27", "end_timestamp": "00:34.606", "podcast_index": 164, "episode_name": "EP 164: State of the Outdoor Economy", "slug": "ep-164-state-of-the-outdoor-economy", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-164-state-of-the-outdoor-economy", "guest_name": "Matt Powell", "guest_title": "Advisor at Spurwink River", "categories": ["industry-trends"], "short_description": "In this episode, Matt Powell shares insights and observations about the economic state of the outdoor industry. It’s common news that the COVID boom then bust has spun the industry into a downward spiral but Matt sheds some new light into the predicament as well as opportunities that could break the industry out of its spiral.", "podcast_length": "44:18"}, {"id": "d070676e-d2c7-41aa-9b42-403ed946fa62", "episode_id": "fde769da-fa02-42e1-88b0-86f7ca00aa72", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4863", "chunk_index": 0, "content": "John Salzinger (00:00:02): I think we as consumers still can drive these corporations to advertise in a way that makes sense and change them dynamically fast, even faster than we can change our political system. And it is the advertisers responsibility to make sure the company survives. So if the survival is based on its consumer's morality, well that's a wonderful chicken in egg.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:00:27): Welcome to the Backcountry Marketing Podcast. My name is Cole Helebo and I'll be your host today. This podcast dives deep with leaders of the outdoor marketing industry as they discuss the gritty details of their work, personal challenges and latest adventures, whether you're standing in the lift line, shuttling to fresh loam or cracking a local beer. I hope you enjoyed today's episode. This is the Backcountry Marketing Podcast. This episode is produced by Portside Productions, an outdoor, commercial and film production company based in the Pacific Northwest. Hey everyone, it's Cole here. I just want to do a quick introduction to this episode, but before I jump into the intro, I just wanted to say thank you. This is episode number 56, which means we've been doing this podcast for over a year now, and its success is because people listen to it. You listen to it. So I just want to say thank you. (00:01:20): If you want to be able to support the show in any way, you can head on over to Apple, leave us a review, five stars, one star, it doesn't really matter, or reach out to me. Find me on Instagram, LinkedIn. I'd love to know what the podcast means to you if there's ways that we can improve it. I don't typically do these introductions for each show. I believe that people want to hear from the guest, they don't want to hear from me, but I figured this episode could use a little bit of an introduction. It could use some context because we're going to just jump right in. John and I are going to jump right into this conversation without much setup, without much background. So here's your exposition. In this episode, I interviewed John Salinger. He is the founder of a company called Empowered. Empowered stands for Micropower Design, and most of you are probably familiar with them because of one of their products. (00:02:09): They're Lucy Light product, which is the inflatable solar powered little lantern. Empowered is on a mission to transform lives through thoughtfully designed clean technology. By utilizing innovative products, they're able to give people the power of self-reliance across the world. To date, they've been able to impact 3,800,000 lives and avert 2,400,000 pounds of CO2. As I got to know John, as we got to start speaking about what we could talk about on this show, it became really apparent that John's the type of guy who likes to think about big issues, and better yet, he can articulate his thoughts around those big issues. I don't know about you, but when I look around the world, I see trends that are concerning, excessive consumerism seems to be everywhere. Ads populate every inch of our lives, and it's understandable why we all love to get outside because we love getting away from the urban sprawl of advertising. You look at your phone, there's an ad, you go to your email, there's an ad, you walk down the road, you drive on the side of the road, and there's an ad. And it seems that advertisers are just constantly telling us to buy, buy, and buy. We never have enough. We never will have enough, but the only way to get closer to having enough is to keep buying. (00:03:33): Hundreds of millions of dollars are being spent on stuff that we don't need. I don't need the 10th pair of shoes that are currently sitting in my basement. I maybe want that 11th pair of shoes, but I certainly don't need them. And if anything, the outdoor industry, while we all love gear, we all love acquiring that next piece of gear n plus one exists for a reason. As marketers, I question our role in this excessive consumerism. I look at the impact of this excessive consumerism, the impact on the environment, the mental health impact of people who get wrapped up in possessions and get wrapped up in materialism. I look at the social media dilemma. There's the famous documentary out that we've done an episode on that talks about social media and the real dark, scary truths about what it is. And like it or not, we as marketers, fuel and pay for those services. That's what keeps the lights on. (00:04:41): I am not pointing any fingers and I'm making generalizations, but have we become so good at selling that we as a marketing industry are no longer concerned with the impact of what we're selling and how it comes across? I firmly believe that if there's any industry that can do better, it's the outdoor industry. I mean, that's why we're all here. We enjoy being progressive. We enjoy thinking about ways to get around obstacles to do things better, but I also know that it's really easy to pass the buck and find a reason to excuse the impact of what we do for a living. It's easy to say, well, marketers are just a reflection of society. We can't change society. Therefore, why should we consider how we market? And that's a fair argument and I don't have an answer to that, but these are the types of things that I wonder about. (00:05:28): And this is the reason why I wanted to do this introduction, because in this conversation you're about to hear with John, we dive into a variety of topics. I just kind of unload my questions on him around this kind of lofty, confusing topic about consumerism marketing and what role does marketing play in our country's excessive consumerism. If you enjoy this episode, again, feel free to leave us a review, reach out to myself or John. I'd love to know what you think. If you have any ideas around this conversation, around this topic that we didn't get into in this show, please let me know. I'd love to talk further with you because this is the type of stuff I really enjoy. I love these conversations. I love not knowing the answer to something and just wanting to learn more. So anyways, enough of my intro. Let's get right into today's episode. Welcome to the Backcountry Marketing Podcast. John, thanks for joining me today. How are you?", "token_estimate": 1564, "speakers": ["John Salzinger", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:00:02", "end_timestamp": "00:00:27", "podcast_index": 56, "episode_name": "EP 56: John Salzinger | The Advertisers Responsibility | MPOWERD", "slug": "ep-56-john-salzinger-the-advertisers-responsibility-mpowerd", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-56-john-salzinger-the-advertisers-responsibility-mpowerd", "guest_name": "John Salzinger", "guest_title": "Founder of MPOWERD", "categories": [], "short_description": "Toxic consumerism, advertising and the marketer's responsibility", "podcast_length": "1:20:40"}, {"id": "184eb90e-8bc9-4b51-b092-95b0a22b68fa", "episode_id": "fde769da-fa02-42e1-88b0-86f7ca00aa72", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c4863", "chunk_index": 1, "content": "John Salzinger (00:06:28): I'm doing great. How are you?\n\nCole Heilborn (00:06:31): Fantastic. I'm super excited to chat today. I think we've got a very interesting topic. It sounds like a pretty lofty topic, so just for the sake of time, I'm excited to dive in and kind of start asking you questions and getting your feedback.\n\nJohn Salzinger (00:06:46): I'd love that. Thank you.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:06:48): So I don't know about you, but I look around our world and it just seems to be so saturated with ads. You look everywhere and you see an ad, and I mean, I use an ad blocker all the time to prevent ads from popping up. And it seems to have reached a point where it steals our time. Ads are manipulating us consciously, unconsciously, and you look at the impact that I feel like that advertising has on society. I look at the fast fashion industry, the turn and burn consumerism that our world is obsessed with, and I just wonder what are the impacts that that has on one, the environment, two on people's mental health? And I dunno, I look at that and I have tons of questions about the ethics of the advertising industry, and when I say ethics, I don't mean are 