cided to quit and start making small business videos. I think that's a fairly normal thing in today's world, but back in oh eight you kind of had to go to a larger production company and spend a lot of money to do that, whereas I was pitching myself and my road mic and my Cannon camera set up and I'd kind of make these two to three minute narrative pieces. And my first kind of big client was Woodenville Whiskey company, which was kind of getting their start also in Woodville and who doesn't like bourbon? And I got to tell a lot of cool stories with those guys and kind of just really showcasing that craft and showcasing how awesome the Pacific Northwest is and kind of a dream gig for someone like myself at that time. I look back at those videos now and they're pretty cringe to watch, but it was a great foray into that world. (05:40): And from there started a production company that I titled travels through Images because my young self thought that the longest name ever would be great. And so that stuck with me until, let's see, that was in 2010 ish all the way through 2019 when I traveled all over the world to shoot video content, was doing a lot of auto and travel and outdoor and really started to grow this production company. And the coolest part about it was getting to know all the creatives in my area and working with like-minded people and really understanding what made productions or good productions go. And it's really, I'd love to say it's all about the talent behind the camera, but it's really about the support that you have and can you put that talent in a great space with nothing else to think about besides grabbing the story or grabbing the subject. (06:47): And I think I started to realize that where my talents really lied, and again, don't get me wrong, I still love shooting photography and video to this day, but I think producing these shoots is what really kind of came to me naturally, making sure that we were going on location, that we had great places to stay and that all the talent had good dinners and making sure that there was also an experience that went with the shoot, not just waking up and grinding for 14 hours a day because that can get a little bit long in the tooth. And so really had a fun time doing that. And I would say that it was the highest of highs and the lowest to lows, kind of when you're running your own production company, you sign big contracts, there's nothing better, but there were obviously those times when rent's due and you had to find new clients and sometimes you had to go film stuff you didn't want to film. (07:46): You did a lot of real estate videos back in those days just to keep the money coming in the door. So yeah, I had my daughter in 2017 and then my wife and I kind of decided that it would be good for me to be around rather than traveling four or five months a year. And I'd kind reached the point in the production space where I was hitting the goals that I wanted to hit when I stepped out. I think I could have gone forever, but I also wanted to maybe try living life, not working 24 hours a day and just see what that felt like. So I took a job@rover.com, which was a, it's kind of the Uber for dog walking in Seattle. If you have a dog, you probably know about it. And they were looking for someone to stand up an internal content studio there and start producing everything from commercials all the way down to social media content. (08:47): And it was definitely below where I was, but I knew that to enter the corporate world, I had to go grind it out and take a job that was lower than the money I was making at the time. But I really wanted something that was going to challenge me and humble me a little bit because it's really easy to go to amazing locations and shoot good content just because working with the best athletes in the coolest places and shooting dogs is a boy. That's that's a whole nother level. You're living by the dogs rules at that point, but it was crazy going in for, you're kind of used to working 50, 60 hours a week and you enter into a corporate space and it's a totally different mentality. And it really allowed me to, the first few months were kind of interesting where I was, I think my manager was like, Hey, you need to slow down a little bit. (09:44): You're going too fast. And I was just kind of used to working at the pace that I've been for the last few years. And so it really allowed me to slow down, be able to help more at home, kind of enjoy those years when my daughter was growing up, while also learning how to work with people that were not the people that I'd been with for the last eight years. And that was a really cool experience, and I knew that after a couple of years there that I'd kind of tapped out a little bit and there was no room for me to grow. But I'll never forget it. I might've learned more in those two years about working with people than I did my entire years of production, just from a totally different standpoint. (10:29): An ad agency in Seattle called Bamboo had a job out for a creative director, and they specialize in paid social ads and kind of the growth aspect of marketing. And for those that they're listening that don't know this would be paying for your paid ads that you see when you're running the thumb at night. Those ads come through Instagram or Facebook or TikTok or LinkedIn or whatever there, and again, another world that I was familiar with, but one that I wasn't immersed in, I was kind of making the content for these teams not really in it and understanding the analytics for that. And so I remember to this day, it was March, let's see, February the end of February of 2020, and I decided to take the job and it was definitely a tough decision to make because I was going in to manage a team of eight people there. (11:24): Let's see, yeah, seven, eight people at Bamboo, and definitely taking more of a managerial role and fully exiting the creative space, which I was also excited about because I really wanted to see if I could be the coach and be the supportive system there. And I know that that sometimes has been harder than doing the actual work. And so took that job, went to Hawaii for a couple weeks, and then COVID was just getting going during that time and it was crazy. Bamboo let me know that they were going full remote and they would be sending a computer to my house and Rover proceeded to let half of their staff go, and half of that staff probably would've been me since I was kind of an on the ground office guy working remotely. It would only last for so long. So I don't know if it was a blessing in disguise or it was the right move to make, but it put me into this crazy working from home situation that we all went through. (12:36): So won't spend too much time there, but I definitely thrive and am able to be the most successful person I can be if I'm around people. And it was a very tough lesson for me to be coaching and leading from a computer screen and never meeting these people in person, and especially in a space that I was very new to and creating content for the paid social space, your three to 15 second world is really different. Quality goes out the window. How do we fish hook people? And coming from a quality heavy background, it was pretty nuts and it really forced me to kind of change the way I looked at things. And also it was just intriguing because now we're looking at what is becoming the normal side of content these days. It's interesting talking to those that are younger than me who don't watch hour long ski movies anymore and who don't watch hour long mountain bike movies anymore just because the attention spans just aren't there. (13:42): And so, yeah, it's one of those reasons why I would happily go without Facebook these days. And so got into that and worked with this amazing group of people over there. It was a very young company with great leadership, and it gave me this whole new skillset of just understanding people and how do you get people to do the things you want them to do without asking 'em and how do you lead that way? And the other thing that was taken away was on location shoots. We could no longer do that anymore for the first part of COVID. And so now all of a sudden we're helping people shoot UGC content, which was a term that was pretty light back then, but became a very familiar one during that space. And so it was kind of a work from home, be the pep talker, making sure the budget was right, and really just kind of driving the ship. (14:47): And it was probably one of the coolest learning experiences I've ever had and will forever be thankful for it. But a year into that job, I can't remember where I saw it or who sent it to me. I think someone sent it to me on LinkedIn, but there was a recruiting company that was hiring for a creative director kind of leadership role in the outdoor space and in Seattle. So I think living in Seattle, you have an idea of who those companies are going to be, and I had a feeling it was, but I was kind of wondering, I feel like a lot of those jobs are REI these days, but went through the first screening meeting with Tammy who's a recruiter at the Nodo group, awesome conversation. And she let me know that it was outdoor research, which I hadn't been super ingrained in what or was doing to me or was the company that made pants for ski patrollers and those that were at the top of the skin track every morning in the backcountry. (15:47): And that was kind of my foray. And I had friends that used, and I always knew them to be the quality, quality kind of higher price gear with not a lot of colors function first over fashion. But again, I think when you are an outdoors driven person, whether it's skiing or mountain biking or trail running or whatever, hiking, backpacking, those jobs don't come along very often and definitely a dream job for me. And so went through a bit of a rigorous interview stage, I think it was 12 interviews with or yeah, and I could tell they were taking it really seriously and they were restructuring an entire executive team and marketing was one of those last items. And the challenge there was, Hey, we've been through the COVID washing machine too. How do we get people back to the office? How do we reinvigorate people? How do we get a company that's made such strides in apparel design and production and kind of now bring in the marketing side of it and the content side because that was the side that was struggling a little bit. So yeah, it's been a little over a year since then.", "token_estimate": 2878, "speakers": ["Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "03:32", "end_timestamp": "03:32", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "93b5e0de-6577-4a0f-a052-265535aa9f63", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 3, "content": "Cole Heilborn (17:07): Awesome. And it sounds like it's been a busy, fun year.\n\nChris King (17:11): Super busy, fun year. It's kind of taking every experience I've had the past 10 years and really using my Rolodex as much as I can and bringing in people that I've met throughout the creative world and taking a very small marketing team and giving them as much as I can, the tools that they need to be successful in. So whether we've done a lot of things, we've kind of finished going through a rebrand that had started before I got here, new mission statements, new content strategies, new social media strategies, really trying to give people the imagery and the content and the literature that or is no longer kind of the top of the little guys, but now we're kind of the bottom of the big guys these days as far as our competition goes. And it's a 40-year-old Seattle company and I feel like not a lot of people in Seattle know that. (18:13): And so including myself, I didn't know that they'd been around for 40 years and having that history is pretty special and really the best part of the job. I think when you get into a marketing position, and I would assume that most people on the podcast and yourself, we've all had to market things that we either did not think were that great or were not interested in. And that is the biggest challenge. But the thing about or is that the product man, it speaks for itself and if you can get that product in people's hands, it does the selling on its own. And so now what we're trying to do is making sure that we're selling that image that we want to be portraying. And the biggest question that comes from the outside is who is or and what is. And so we're now trying to carve our own lane in the outdoor industry and through content production and showing people what we're about. That's kind of the challenge these days.", "token_estimate": 469, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "17:07", "end_timestamp": "17:11", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "c5479ce4-db0e-4896-b3af-6a9529af90ae", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 4, "content": "Cole Heilborn (19:12): That's kind of wild to think because I guess being up here in Bellingham, not far away from Seattle, I've always heard of or, and so the fact that you guys are that people don't know who or is really interesting. And so let's dive in a little deeper. So that's one of the challenges that you are working on and content strategy is a piece of the puzzle in terms of how you're trying to accomplish this. So I'm trying to figure out where we start because\n\nChris King (19:42): Yeah, totally. There's a lot of directions.\n\nCole Heilborn (19:45): Totally. So is that kind of the premise? Was that the challenge that you were stepping into?", "token_estimate": 165, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "19:12", "end_timestamp": "19:45", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "01e9ef90-9f25-4eb7-a07c-d8a74dadbde2", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 5, "content": "Chris King (19:52): Yeah, so I mean I can break it down pretty down to the request really when I got here, we have what some may look at is a decent sized photo budget and content budget. We do not have the content and photo budgets of our competitors these days of where we want to be at. And that's part of growing. And so I think the challenge for me right off the bat is how do I take this budget and really exceed the current expectations of the content strategy that we're had? And I think that that's a real challenge and I think it's been a challenge for others before me here. And what I had to offer here is that one, I try not to do it a lot, but I was able to shoot content if we needed quick things. But I knew I had a lot of friends in the industry that I've worked with for a long time that were at a high level that charged fair normal day rates. (21:00): We're not the outdoor industry company that's going to trade somebody gear for work. I really, it's important to me having been on the other side that people and contractors who work for or working for four and feel that it's a fair rate because I need these people to come back and I want to make sure that we just really set a standard there. And I think before I got here, there was a bit of a lack in production knowledge, and I don't think it was the end goal of like, Hey, we need this content to be great. It's just that I think having that Rolodex really helped me a lot and I just have some awesome friends that have become important to me for sure. But what was going on is that with the small photo budget, the team here would shoot really, really good content, but the budget didn't run very far. (21:56): And one thing about or that a lot of people don't know is that we've got an insane amount of products in the 300 range and all the way down to boxers and all the way up to $700 Gore-Tex shells. And with a 20 capsule unit photo budget would be no problem. You could really focus on experiences and you could make sure all those things were captured. But what the problem was was that how do we get all of these items shot in outdoor locations with the budget that we had and those images were really helping the e-comm, our website really looked great. And so we had become dependent on those outdoor images to sell items. And so we kind of had a few different options. And what the change I've been doing is that after figuring out that, hey, we can't, it's impossible to shoot all these items in different scenes, is that how can we create a better studio photography experience to showcase these items and then use the photo budget that we have to really showcase experience and then our top of line items and really show the brand versus showing the ins and outs of every single piece that we make. (23:16): And that was kind of the first deal was fix the content capture. And so that's what we've definitely been working on the past year.", "token_estimate": 733, "speakers": ["Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "19:52", "end_timestamp": "19:52", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "c5f2125c-2bbd-4716-b8e2-b3daaba69530", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 6, "content": "Cole Heilborn (23:26): So I think that budget dilemma that you're describing is a dilemma that I got to imagine everyone faces regardless of the scale that you're operating on, whether you're a one person boutique company or we use the example all the time, Patagonia, it always seems like you could use more and there's never enough money to spread throughout all of the different types of content that you want to create. I don't know from the production side when you were doing that, how would you experience that with clients?", "token_estimate": 133, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "23:26", "end_timestamp": "23:26", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "e0617eaa-3b87-48d1-b45c-31dad241070e", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 7, "content": "Chris King (23:57): Totally. I mean I think, man, you can make such amazing content these days with little amounts of money. Where extra money comes in is once you have the piece of equipment and you have the talent behind the camera, now you're just building a support system. We have our ambassador team that we often use as our models for athletes or for showing people in athletic environments. And then sometimes we have to use professional models. And when you build, the more amount of people on set is the more money. And so around the DP or around the photographer, you can have stylist, you can have hair and makeup, you can have assistance and you can rent expensive equipment. You can rent crazy stabilizers and cable cans. And as you know, that train never ends, right? Do we want to have nice cinema lenses? And then the money just goes higher and higher and higher and all of a sudden you can get to 10 or $15,000 a day on a set really, really fast. (25:10): And there's nothing more fun than having a large budget and being able to take a chef's knife and improve the little things around the DP or the photographer and also give them the comfort that they have the support, which whenever I had that support and I was shooting, it's like you can totally zone out and not even have to worry how the models look or have to worry, worry about dumping cards or have to worry that stuff is set up and ready to go. And that is when you have that kind of comforting feel like that, I think you can really do your best work. And so what I tried to do was make sure that I could now use my talents on set and be on set. I'm technically, I'm a salaried employee, so we're not paying a day rate for me, but knowing what a photographer and videographer usually needed, I wanted to be that assistant in the back and maybe we hire another assistant also that's also helping. (26:07): And I was just trying to trim the fat as much as possible and knowing that we could start at a base level because there were low expectations when I got here, we could just start ground bottom and really focus on a good location and making sure that the clothes were representing the use case that they were in. And so as simple as it sounds, making sure rain jackets were shot in the rain, simple stuff like that. And using the amazing space we have around here in the Pacific Northwest and not traveling a ton allowed me to kind of fine tune these shoots, though they're still expensive. The end of a three day shoot with a small crew was still, and models and ambassadors is still costing 20 to 30 grand at the end of the day, usually around 10,000 bucks a day. And so that sounds like an insane amount of money, but to shoot the amount of items that we were shooting and the experiences that we were trying to do, when you're competing with the North faces and the Patagonia and those people, that isn't the top. And so that was really the challenge coming in here and something that I think we did a really good job at and the internal marketing team here at or is awesome and people just want to see the brand flourish, which is great. And it's been a huge support since I've been here.", "token_estimate": 795, "speakers": ["Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "23:57", "end_timestamp": "23:57", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "4a1c5354-4166-47c6-a0f3-5398cf2aae5b", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 8, "content": "Cole Heilborn (27:30): So it sounds like in order to figure out how to stretch the dollars and figure out where they should best be allocated, did you first start by designing the entire strategy and figuring out what's important or what can we do or what can be shot on a studio? How did you walk me through that strategy side of it?\n\nChris King (27:53): Yeah, I remember we were a couple of weeks in and it was late, it was July. And so spring 22 had not been shot yet and we need to have spring summer deliverables by usually October 1st because we launched in March and it was a bad fire season, so there was smoke everywhere in the Pacific Northwest. And I remember working with a colleague of mine and saying, all right, show me the budget. Let's see the Excel sheet. And I could immediately tell right off the bat that there was large amounts of money being spent on things that weren't necessary. And it's a really tough position to be in as a new head of marketing is that there are a lot of vendors that work with the company for a long time, and I've been on the other side of this myself that usually when your connect, that's a marketing at a company leaves, oftentimes they bring their people in. (29:01): And now I'm on the other side of that having to have conversations with photographers and videographers that we plain and simple to capture the content that we need. We can't afford you. And as much as I think your photography is amazing, we need to do five shoots this summer, not one. And we can't blow our entire budget on one or two photo shoots. We had to spread it out as much as we could. And so figuring out, okay, now where can we go? What's cheap for us to get to? Where do we need to go? And at that time, climbing was a big part of the seasonal capture that we were doing. So I remember the first shoot we went on was to Smith Rock down in Bend and it kind of gave me an idea of what the expectations were because everyone down there had been on a photo shoot with or before, a lot of our ambassadors were there, people were helping that were part of or, and it really kind let me know that the productions that or was used to was 10 to 15 people going around an outdoor location and definitely more of a, it's hard. (30:08): It's hard that many people to get the contents herding cats. And it definitely let me know that we needed to downsize as much as possible and again, spread the money around as much as we could. We needed to have four person teams without a huge travel or send gear to people that were in those locations to make sure that we could get a variety of content. And so it was a really fast moment and there were some definite wins that summer, but it was also crazy. You're just drinking from the fire hose trying to fix all the things that the people above you expect. So yeah, just kind looking at the spreadsheet and starting there,", "token_estimate": 722, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "27:30", "end_timestamp": "27:53", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "bfa22ff4-3bc6-4825-96e6-89b1bef3579e", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 9, "content": "Cole Heilborn (30:52): How do you recommend, this is a very general question, but how do you recommend folks figure out actually what to spend their dollars on?\n\nChris King (31:02): That is a great question.\n\nCole Heilborn (31:04): And I guess when I say spend, I am imagining if you're going to hire a photographer and you have all of this content that you ideally want to shoot with this photographer, how do you actually decide what is worth spending the money on? Because I'm assuming because you can't afford it all.", "token_estimate": 131, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "30:52", "end_timestamp": "31:04", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "79e296f0-1537-4465-9496-809156427774", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 10, "content": "Chris King (31:24): Yes. So I think from a priority perspective when I'm designing a shoot is that I start with our crew first and really at, or we like to use a variety of content creators so that the content isn't all the same, which is also a challenge in itself too. And thankfully again, got some good connects as I just noticed as I was perusing your podcast, a few people that have been on here before we work with and I think like, okay, we got our team, we have, can we afford to have video as well as photo? And we start with that team and who needs assistance? Do we need an assistant for both photo and video? Can we have one assistant for both? Can I come and help with that stuff? And then from there we got to pick the location. And so we are really trying to figure out as a brand where we want to show up in our imagery and we're Pacific Northwest through and through, but we also want to expand. (32:30): And so I think we're going to shoot most of our stuff up in the Pacific Northwest, but we're also going to venture to other places too because we want to make sure that in order for us to expand to the east coast, we need to have some east coast imagery. Maybe it's not all of it, but there has to be some, right? And looking at the full season, where is that large travel budget going to come in and what can we do at home? And so going back to the individual, shoot, something that's very important to me, which I think is maybe not for others because we've all been on shoots where we're sleeping at janky motels with four to a room. I want to make sure that everyone has a great place to sleep and sometimes their own bedroom if possible, or a great bunk situation and that everyone is well fed. (33:20): And again, there's an experience beyond the shoe. I've just learned that if we're in a beautiful place and we don't have to worry about going to get not a great sleep at the end of the night and not have a, not a party per se, but just a fun, relax time to get regenerated for the next day, I want to make sure that's a great situation. So I think I tend to spend more on the travel side of it than others do, but that's important to me for my crew and making sure that there, like I said, there's a great experience in there. So we'll do the travel and then from there we get to figure out the talent situation and are we bringing ambassadors on the shoot? Do we need models? Build that out. And then usually with the extra that's left is okay, what extra gear can we bring with us to take the production to the next level? (34:17): What do we need to rent? Are we going to rent some nicer cinema lenses? Are we going to rent stabilizers? Are we going to rent rain machines? Are we going to rent a 12 by 12 scrimm to really set up a beautiful setting that isn't blown out by the sun? Just that little stuff that adds up really quick when you're on a one week shoot. And so that's kind of how I look at it. And oftentimes, hey, we might just be on a trail and trying to hit the best light and we don't have any extra grip and that's it, but we have to still get that content. And some shoots I have more budget than others, but yeah, that's kind of the formula that I go with.", "token_estimate": 802, "speakers": ["Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "31:24", "end_timestamp": "31:24", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "c9bb04a7-5e04-4720-ad38-a786722590d9", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 11, "content": "Cole Heilborn (34:54): Gotcha. What about, similar question but from a different perspective now. What about for brands who maybe don't have as much production experience as yourself, and maybe it sounds like you're kind of playing, you are a producer, you are playing producer for these shoots, for brands where they aren't familiar with producing something and let's say they're bringing in a producer to help them bring a shoot together. How do they decide of all the different shoots that they could pick from and work on throughout the year, maybe they want to do a product piece, they want to do a story piece, maybe they want to create a bunch of social contents and they're looking at bringing in a producer and a team to shoot all of that. How do they decide from that brand level what's worth investing in?", "token_estimate": 204, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "34:54", "end_timestamp": "34:54", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "8688d56a-f00f-4c7b-823d-43ce72b28900", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 12, "content": "Chris King (35:42): Huge. I think that it's tough if you don't have the general background in which of those tools can be the most valuable. I remember earlier on in my career, I was trying to be the DP and the producer at the same time, and I remember the first time that I paid for a producer to come on a shoot and my mind was completely blown because all of a sudden I didn't have to coach models, I didn't have to talk with, we were doing a casino shoot, I didn't have to work with the people at the casino, I just could focus on what I was doing. And from then on, it became an absolute no brainer for me. And so having a good producer can be expensive, but the value rings through. It's kind of like you get a great photographer and nothing against the people that create content whatsoever. (36:42): I think you can get a good photographer and that person can run a whole shoot no problem. But for those larger scale shoots, a producer really makes that person shine. It's kind of putting nice speakers on your really nice area. And so I think if that experience isn't, there's a lot of really good companies up here in the Pacific Northwest that do produce shoots. We were using a production company up here that was before I was here, gosh, I can't remember the name, but they were helping put all these shoots together because there really wasn't a great internal person to help with that. And it is an expense for sure, but I think it helps get your shoot off the ground level and then the people, the internal people the company can focus on, alright, here's what this gear needs to look like and what are the assets that we need and we can just focus on that part where the producer can kind of wrangle everything else.\n\nCole Heilborn (37:38): Yeah, interesting. So what about now feels like the right time to invest in some of that story focused stuff?", "token_estimate": 467, "speakers": ["Chris King", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "35:42", "end_timestamp": "37:38", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "d153afca-37e5-4ac4-bc12-8e02b27790c1", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 13, "content": "Chris King (37:48): So in order to get to the place where we could start pushing the brand awareness and pushing outdoor research instead of just marketing single pieces of apparel, the product had to be in a great place. And so as I mentioned before, the product really needs to be in a great place. For those that don't know in larger apparel brands, or at least here, it takes about three years from an inception of a product design prototypes, building the fit and really getting the product shot from a marketing perspective and then going into a retail location takes about three years or about that time ago, brought in a new team on the product side who's just been crushing it and really bringing the clothing to a very respectable place where I think in the past or is very much or has been technical before or technical or function before fashion. (38:57): And that left us with pieces that would protect you in the outdoors no matter what. And again, there's only a select amount of people that need apparel like that and how could we keep that same mentality but also design pieces that someone who'd never, that was hiking for the first time or wanted a great down jacket or soft shell or raincoat to wear to and from the office, how could you apply that design towards that group as well? Because again, if you're growing a brand at the place you want it to be, we have to sell beyond the niche customer group. And so the clothing and the clothing design has really gotten to a place where people felt comfortable now pushing the brand because of what we had to offer. And not only is our stuff extremely well made and designed, it's starting to just look really awesome. (39:58): That was the first step of that process. The second step once we had that is that making sure that our internal, our seasonal photography and our seasonal content capture to use on web and social media and for any out of home stuff was also on point as well. And I think then at that space, and once I kind of had a good formula going there, air came the harder question because I think I know the production world really well and I know how to get a product from holding it in my hand to up on the website. I know that formula great, but now it's the request came in from our president of, okay, let's go build this brand and let's let people know who we are. And so we are going to get going on a brand awareness campaign in the start of October, kind of when it gets a little colder. We do have a ton of winter outerwear that we're pushing in a big way this year, but that now it's time to start testing some other platforms beyond just Facebook and Instagram.", "token_estimate": 665, "speakers": ["Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "37:48", "end_timestamp": "37:48", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "e53cb48c-8d2b-4d73-92fe-a2a28cef42d7", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 14, "content": "Cole Heilborn (41:10): Yeah, interesting. I was reading a statistic and it said since 2018 to 2021, the amount of video watched per person per week has almost doubled from about nine hours a week to now 18 hours per week. I'm just curious to hear your reaction.\n\nChris King (41:31): I mean, yeah, it makes sense, right? We were at home a lot and I think, gosh, I know that we definitely increased our video watching that was for sure. And whether that was watching more movies and shows on Netflix or using YouTube as a tool to work on home projects, we never took part in content has become more than just kind of a veg out situation. And a great example of that is on our YouTube channel, we have a ton of tutorial videos that we've produced in the past and everything from, Hey, here's how to put skins on your skis all the way, how to rig your climbing gear, what goes in your back country backpack, stuff that the team before I got here was working on. And man, the viewership of those videos is, I could tell you some of the stats on that is crazy, like 40 to 60 hours per week on these three minute videos is just you see people that wanted to go outside and wanted to learn new things. And I think from a content strategy, yes, of course we were maybe watching six seasons of Peaky Blinders in a week, but I think also there was this education piece that's always been there, but I think it came in because a lot of people started doing new things. When COVID started, the outdoor spaces exploded. You couldn't, with the supply chain and the amount of people joining the sport, you couldn't find a bike for a few years there. (43:16): And I think people wanted to know how to do things. They wanted to exceed their talent levels. And you saw just this explosion of camping and hiking and mountain biking and backcountry skiing. And fortunately for us, we are in a great place for that and noticed that our certain pieces of our content started to just increase. But that's the name of the game these days.", "token_estimate": 504, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "41:10", "end_timestamp": "41:31", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "ffa69097-c660-485c-9577-0500f209fab0", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 15, "content": "Cole Heilborn (43:40): So if content, if video consumption has doubled, I mean, I guess a simple assumption would be that brands output of video has doubled. And then would that also mean, am I wrong to believe that then budgets have also doubled?\n\nChris King (44:06): We are trying to be very conservative right now because, and I doubt we're the only one, we're kind of wondering if this push to the outdoors is going to last. And I think the really good thing about COVID is that on one side there was a major mental health explosion about not being able to ever really leave your job because you were just at home all the time and living the at-home life. And it's, it was hard to turn it off there for a while. But the other side of it is that you had this like, okay, maybe I'll get up early, maybe my list of responsibilities, maybe I don't need eight hours to get that done during the day. (44:55): I think for a long time in offices, the two o'clock to five o'clock hour was spent surfing social media sometimes. And if you read, you can read a lot of studies that tell you that time of the day is your least productive. And I think you saw, at least I know for myself, a lot of people get outside during that time. It was the safe place to go. And so from a content perspective, we needed more content, we needed more video showcasing our products so people would know what to buy. We needed more storytelling, we needed more internal video that talked about our product technologies, more tutorial videos, and we've really been trying to do our best there. But no, the budget has kind of stayed the same because we really want to make sure that we've definitely fruited off of this outdoor push, but we want to make sure that this keeps going. And I think if you were a logical person, people are going back to work and we may be looking at a recession here in the coming years, the writing's on the wall, and we want to make sure that we can still put out what we're doing in kind of a frugal way, but also make sure that the partners that we're working with we're being fair with all of them and also keeping the quality of that content in a good place rather than trying to create more content where the quality lapses a little bit.", "token_estimate": 562, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "43:40", "end_timestamp": "44:06", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "46f008e5-e968-4e63-824f-40f24862391c", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 16, "content": "Cole Heilborn (46:25): Yeah. Gotcha. I'm just kind of going through some rapid fire questions. So podcasts, we're obviously in a podcast format. I'm curious, how do you see podcasts in the future of content strategy? I mean, just chatting with a lot of marketing folks through this medium, it definitely seems like something that brands are interested in producing or being a part of in a sponsor format, something like that. What do you think happening?\n\nChris King (47:00): Again, two paths. You produce your own internal podcasts, some brands are doing that and then, or you can sponsor a podcast. And I think coming from a production world, not a podcast world, producing a podcast is no easy job and not a job that someone who's already doing production can go and just handle, right? It's like, I think in the early days of social media, there were not social media people. It was, Hey, can you manage our Facebook or something like that. And now we have dedicated social media people. And so I think right now for us, an internal podcast is probably out of the question. And I think what it would take us to grow that as you know, got to put in that time and really make sure that you have a niche. One of the reasons why I like your podcast a lot is I really want to know what other people in the industry are doing and how they're getting through challenging problems. And I think you have a great niche in that. I think we could probably come up with something, but it would be tough. So we're actually going to try sponsoring a few podcasts this season as a bit of a test and see if there is an ROI on that. And we are doing this brand awareness campaign and we want to add a couple of different mediums to it. And I'm really curious, and I think, have you worked with sponsors on your podcast before?", "token_estimate": 453, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "46:25", "end_timestamp": "47:00", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "a29b8640-5474-4d5d-8c8b-3dc9e5b4c30c", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 17, "content": "Cole Heilborn (48:34): Short answer, no. It's something that we have entertained, but I think the value that we provide that we could provide to a potential sponsor is very niche and very limited just because our audience size is very niche and very focused. So it's something that, I've had a few conversations with brands, but we've never run an ad to this point. Not to say that we wouldn't be against it, but I think we just got to find the right fit for our show.\n\nChris King (49:06): Exactly. And I definitely wonder the same things myself, and I think the easiest form of advertising is having a call to action with an easy route to a purchase. And I think if you're in the niche of the podcast and you are about what that podcast host is talking about and they recommend a product in a non-car salesman way, you can have success there. But I don't think it's ever going to trump the success that a paid social ad is going to, only because you can click and purchase where a podcast, you have to stop listening, find a purchase portal and go from there. I mean, that's a great customer to have right there because usually that's going to probably be a repeat purchase customer. But it's an interesting space and I'm really curious to see what comes back from that personally.\n\nCole Heilborn (50:03): So when you think about metrics, data seems to be everything as we inform our content and the types of content that we produce. I know this is kind of a general question, but what sort of metrics are you looking at that helps inform your content strategy decisions?", "token_estimate": 393, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "48:34", "end_timestamp": "50:03", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "4b241894-e53e-4a1b-99b1-78dfca880b34", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 18, "content": "Chris King (50:22): Well, obviously we're really focused on the metrics that come in from, I would say meta, Facebook and Instagram. We really like to see our roas, which is our return on ad spend. We really focus on our conversions. Cost per million CPMs are also great also, and this is me kind of playing devil's advocate, we're getting a lot of those metrics from meta and we know that what we're putting forth does turn into conversions, but it is kind of something that sticks in the back of your head of, Hey, the person that I'm paying the money to, or the company I'm paying the money to is also giving me my metrics. And we can get third party metrics from Google Analytics also, but it's kind of a wild space out there. And we do our best and we have a really good paid social team that puts forth an understandable monthly report because you can get lost in those metrics. And so the metrics that I'm kind of looking at is where are we growing a lot? And YouTube metrics are pretty crazy because it's longer time watched on your brand than an ad, but again, is more of a brand awareness ad. And it's definitely the old school way of marketing is not. There was a time where we would spend money on marketing and we wouldn't have all the metrics that we do now. And so Instagram is great for purchases that are made directly from the platform. (52:02): Really one of our fastest growing channels right now is LinkedIn, which is crazy. But we grow at a faster rate on LinkedIn than any of our brands right now. And I do think that it's helped us kind of be a little bit more known in the workspace and has helped us attract really good talent the past few years. So we're trying to figure out how to use that a bit more. But this fall we are going to kind of go away from the metrics a little bit. We're going to do some billboards, we're going to do YouTube, which has metrics, but not put as much focus on Facebook and Instagram. And I'm just really curious to see how that tests out. Obviously when we're going to report all this, we have to use as many metrics as we can because there is comfort in knowing what's working and what isn't.", "token_estimate": 538, "speakers": ["Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "50:22", "end_timestamp": "50:22", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "87e93119-920c-4a2a-80c2-1fd013a3da82", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 19, "content": "Cole Heilborn (52:57): Sure. Yeah. Well, we've talked about a lot of different facets today, Chris. I'm curious though, if, what does the future look like for content creation? What's your hunch?\n\nChris King (53:12): Man, an interesting one, because we have content that gets hundreds of thousands of views that's shot with an iPhone and on Instagram reels, which is crazy to me and also an amazing way to get more eyes on the brand. And the one thing I keep coming back to is how do we get more viewers to our brand reels on Instagram are a great way to do that, but then how do we also tell our brand story? And I think we're going to have, we already have it now, but there are two different pieces of content because whenever you're showcasing your brand or telling your brand story, I think you want that quality to be top notch. And that's kind of the, Hey, whenever we're working with new partners, new content partners, photographers, videographers, usually the last part of that conversation before we talk an actual project is, can I see your portfolio? (54:20): I want to see what you have to offer. Send me some examples of relatable work. And that's when a content creator is going to put forward their best piece. But they might've been doing some tutorial videos on their Instagram stories. They might've done reels about behind the scenes of the recent shoot that they did. That supporting content, I think really acts like the fish hook in getting new eyes onto your brand. And so right now, it's obviously been proven in more ways than one that you don't need to have the nicest imagery to get a purchase or conversion. But I do think when you are telling your brand story, you want to put forward the best pieces of content that you can get. And so where it used to be, that used to be the only thing. I think we now are realizing that we can shoot content that's really fast on iPhones because people really want to see what goes on behind the scenes, or they want to learn how to do something in the outdoors and they don't really need a cinematic approach to that. And that to me is one of the coolest parts of content is that we're now sharing all this information through video, and then when we really need to represent the brand in the best way, we want to put forward the best content that we can make.", "token_estimate": 583, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "52:57", "end_timestamp": "53:12", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "d542b34c-1bd2-464f-8089-d8f4b6405004", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 20, "content": "Cole Heilborn (55:34): Yeah, it's an interesting time for sure.\n\nChris King (55:37): Yeah.\n\nCole Heilborn (55:38): But I feel like we always kind of say that, which seems kind of like a cop out as a phrase. Everything is an interesting time,\n\nChris King (55:47): Very much so, especially given the fact that this content surge wasn't really happening 12 years ago. It was just getting going. So I think it's going to level out a little more as we kind of realize what content begins to work and what doesn't. But I do think there's going to be an ever-changing social aspect to content and how we view it and what do we need for some stuff and what do we need for others. And I think that if you can have some balance there, I think it really shows what you're trying to do very well. Well,\n\nCole Heilborn (56:22): Chris, I want to thank you for taking the time to chat today. If folks want to follow along with outdoor research or with you personally, is there a place you'd want to send folks?\n\nChris King (56:33): Yeah, totally. So outdoor research on Instagram is a great place, and that's just outdoor research. We were also building up our TikTok right now, and that's going to have a lot more of your UGC based content. That's also outdoor research as well. Yeah, we've started to get into some fun projects over there and got a great new organic social producer that's working on that. And then me personally, probably, I don't seem to be as active anymore these days, but my Instagram is Chris King, PNW. I might find some behind the scenes stuff on there as well.", "token_estimate": 394, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "55:34", "end_timestamp": "56:33", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "8d5c03e8-2f1b-4dbc-9a17-0a04671d6e07", "episode_id": "c948a978-a1e3-4026-aff6-3b3e3ad678b0", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489c", "chunk_index": 21, "content": "Cole Heilborn (57:13): Awesome. Well, it sounds like we should keep an eye on you and the next foreseeable future of, or sounds like a lot of exciting things are happening and who knows, who knows where some of these trends and where some of this content will go. But I appreciate you sharing and giving us a deep dive into your perspective on some of these topics. I guess there's no one right answer, and I think what I've noticed from this conversation with you is that you can always create more content. There's always more to be made, but figuring out what to spend it on, what to focus on is the hard part. And if you can figure that out and then you can actually go out and make the content, chances are the success and the return on that content will be worthwhile.\n\nChris King (57:58): Dude, totally agree. I think as long as you're open to trying new things and staying humble and realizing that maybe you don't have all the answers, you can kind of keep moving at that pace.\n\nCole Heilborn (58:11): Awesome. Well, I think that's a great life motto, a great way to wrap up today's episode. Chris, thank you again. Have an awesome day, and we'll see you soon.\n\nChris King (58:21): Yeah, buddy.\n\nCole Heilborn (58:24): Thank you for listening to this episode of the Backcountry Marketing Podcast. If you enjoyed today's episode or learn something new, please consider leaving us a review on Apple or sharing this with a friend.", "token_estimate": 359, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Chris King"], "start_timestamp": "57:13", "end_timestamp": "58:24", "podcast_index": 116, "episode_name": "EP 116: Chris King | What IS a Content Strategy? | Outdoor Research", "slug": "ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-116-chris-king-what-is-a-content-strategy-outdoor-research", "guest_name": "Chris King", "guest_title": "Brand Director", "categories": ["creative"], "short_description": "Chris King is the Brand Director at Outdoor Research. He’s had many different roles in his career, from marketing manager at a finance company to starting his own production company to creative director at an ad agency. And now, he’s landed at Outdoor Research, which he says is his dream job.", "podcast_length": "58:43"}, {"id": "89174c17-f1ba-4899-a269-7380e9b826f5", "episode_id": "c9e68a61-0fb5-440b-a765-0cbbd05235f6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489b", "chunk_index": 0, "content": "Dax Myers (00:04): Creating as broad of an awareness funnel that we can, and that's ultimately how we're going to shift the paradigm, is creating that awareness that the stuff is gnarly, it's nasty, it there have been incremental changes. We go from short chain floral carbons and ski wax, which it's still a fluorinated wax, but instead of breaking down, never, it'll break down at some point.\n\nCole Heilborn (00:33): Welcome to the Backcountry Marketing Podcast. My name is Cole Hoborne and I'll be your host today. This podcast dives deep with leaders of the outdoor marketing industry as they discuss the gritty details of their work, personal challenges and latest adventures, whether you're standing in the lift line, shuttling to fresh loam or cracking a local beer. I hope you enjoyed today's episode. This is the Back Country Marketing Podcast. This episode is produced by Port Side Productions, an outdoor, commercial and film production company based in the Pacific Northwest. Welcome to the Backcountry Marketing Podcast. My name is Cole Helebo. Today I'm sitting down with Dax Myers. He's the director of marketing over at Mountain Flow. Dax, how are you\n\nDax Myers (01:14): Doing? Very well. Stoked to be here.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:16): Yeah, thanks for joining us. How is your day going?\n\nDax Myers (01:20): It's solid so far. We're starting to kind of transition out of the summer heat. We've got kind of the fall. Cool. Settling in. It's been a really lovely morning in the Crystal River Valley.\n\nCole Heilborn (01:31): Yeah. Where are you calling in from?\n\nDax Myers (01:34): So I am technically in Carbondale, Colorado, but I'm closer to Redstone, so 14 miles outside of Carbondale, only about a mile outside of Redstone.", "token_estimate": 435, "speakers": ["Dax Myers", "Cole Heilborn"], "start_timestamp": "00:04", "end_timestamp": "01:34", "podcast_index": 119, "episode_name": "EP 119: Marketing a Commodity | Dax Myers | MountainFLOW eco-wax", "slug": "ep-119-marketing-a-commodity-dax-myers-mountainflow-eco-wax", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-119-marketing-a-commodity-dax-myers-mountainflow-eco-wax", "guest_name": "Dax Myers", "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "Dax Myers has worked in ski travel for over a decade. When COVID shut down travel in 2020, he was laid off right as I started grad school. He used that time to make a big huge pivot into the product side of the outdoor industry. His current role entails handling all of the marketing efforts and strategy for mountainFLOW.", "podcast_length": "38:21"}, {"id": "60daa378-0581-490b-b084-d474a849752c", "episode_id": "c9e68a61-0fb5-440b-a765-0cbbd05235f6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489b", "chunk_index": 1, "content": "Cole Heilborn (01:43): Okay, gotcha. Right on. So this is a complete side thought, but when we first got connected, I noticed your hat, and I think it's the same hat you're wearing today. It's a high above mountain bike hat, and I would be really curious to see. I don't know what I want to see, but I just feel like there's something super interesting about people who wear hats with logos on them, and it's different than wearing a sweatshirt or a jacket with a logo. I think it says something very different about the person. I don't know, I'm curious what your thoughts are.\n\nDax Myers (02:15): I think that I would agree with you that there is definitely something different with hat branding. For me, it's more about the fit of the hat and the branding comes kind of second. And so when we were up in Bellingham, we were next to, we were at the tuneup event, we were next to the high above tent, and the fact that the hat fit really well was the reason why it gets so much usage. But that said, it is a very cool logo. They've got very clean branding over there\n\nCole Heilborn (02:44): And the whole, I never know how to do this depending on the hat. Do you tuck the ears in or do you tuck the ears out?\n\nDax Myers (02:51): Great question. Especially as somebody with pointy long ears. I'm typically a leave them out. I've actually had former bosses that have been like, will you tuck your ears in? Come on. So I'm camp out. But\n\nCole Heilborn (03:07): Yeah, same. It's so uncomfortable to have your ears jammed inside a hat. I feel like it takes away from your ability to actually hear things. Well, completely off tangent, but Dax, thanks for joining us today. So I got to say, I only knew, I feel like half of your guys' story when we were first introduced. I didn't know that you were in the bike space, but I've heard of you in the ski world. For folks who maybe aren't familiar, could you give us the quick introduction on Mountain Flow and who you guys are?", "token_estimate": 493, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Dax Myers"], "start_timestamp": "01:43", "end_timestamp": "03:07", "podcast_index": 119, "episode_name": "EP 119: Marketing a Commodity | Dax Myers | MountainFLOW eco-wax", "slug": "ep-119-marketing-a-commodity-dax-myers-mountainflow-eco-wax", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-119-marketing-a-commodity-dax-myers-mountainflow-eco-wax", "guest_name": "Dax Myers", "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "Dax Myers has worked in ski travel for over a decade. When COVID shut down travel in 2020, he was laid off right as I started grad school. He used that time to make a big huge pivot into the product side of the outdoor industry. His current role entails handling all of the marketing efforts and strategy for mountainFLOW.", "podcast_length": "38:21"}, {"id": "5a24ee8a-5766-4bbe-a5d3-75b34c7951b8", "episode_id": "c9e68a61-0fb5-440b-a765-0cbbd05235f6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489b", "chunk_index": 2, "content": "Dax Myers (03:38): Yeah, absolutely. So Mountain Flow, we've been around since 2016, and we started in the ski wax space, really recognizing the imperative really to make a cleaner ski wax. So much of the consumables in the ski and bike industries are made with really nasty, gnarly chemicals. And so that was kind of the original impetus for mountain Flow and really just kind of leapt used that to really kind of get to a point of reach a performance threshold while completely redesigning how ski wax is made. So we use plant-based formula. It's biodegradable, it's non-toxic, no petroleum ever. And then we've taken that same ethos to all of the bike lines. And we are a certified B Corp. We actually just recer it this year. And so we put thought into every single aspect of production, and that includes the product itself, but it also includes the packaging. (04:47): And so we use post-consumer plastic in just about every single thing we put out. And then we also use our bike wash, for example, utilizes, it's a cardboard kind of hybrid container. And the way that it works is it's a thinner plastic reservoir wrapped in cardboard that uses 70% less plastic than a traditional plastic bottle. And so realistically, we kind of have our toes dipped in multiple spaces right now. And again, this is all based on recognizing the gaps in the bike and ski industry, consumables world, and seeing if we can do it better. And so we're in the process right now of launching recycled aluminum ski poles, which a hundred percent out of the realm of consumables, but it's something that isn't really being done right now in the industry. And the initial measurements are showing that recycled aluminum utilizes about 95% less carbon emissions than a virgin aluminum ski pole. (05:49): And so really trying to use the sustainability narrative to, I guess, let me rephrase that. We're focusing mostly on quality. We want to create quality goods because you can be as sustainable as you want, and if your products don't work, then nobody is going to care. And so we're walking that line. And from a marketing perspective, we definitely lean performance first, sustainability second. We would much rather somebody be like, wow, this chain loop is incredible. And then find out later that, so yeah, that's kind of the long and short of mountain flow. No, petroleum is kind of like the overarching ethos through every single product. And then, yeah, plant-based biodegradable.", "token_estimate": 617, "speakers": ["Dax Myers"], "start_timestamp": "03:38", "end_timestamp": "03:38", "podcast_index": 119, "episode_name": "EP 119: Marketing a Commodity | Dax Myers | MountainFLOW eco-wax", "slug": "ep-119-marketing-a-commodity-dax-myers-mountainflow-eco-wax", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-119-marketing-a-commodity-dax-myers-mountainflow-eco-wax", "guest_name": "Dax Myers", "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "Dax Myers has worked in ski travel for over a decade. When COVID shut down travel in 2020, he was laid off right as I started grad school. He used that time to make a big huge pivot into the product side of the outdoor industry. His current role entails handling all of the marketing efforts and strategy for mountainFLOW.", "podcast_length": "38:21"}, {"id": "7a84a9f1-ce32-4a7c-889f-c635ac886c58", "episode_id": "c9e68a61-0fb5-440b-a765-0cbbd05235f6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489b", "chunk_index": 3, "content": "Cole Heilborn (06:45): So I've always had the assumption that the nastier, the ski wax or the nastier the chain lube, the better it has to be for the performance factor. How does that work out? What plants are these derived from?\n\nDax Myers (07:04): So the ski wax that we use, at least in our standard hot wax line, we have a race line and then we have a hot wax line. So just our standard wax. It's actually an amalgamation of succulents. And we've taken the hydrophobic qualities of the several succulents that we use and have basically applied that same sort of chemical reaction to the ski wax. And then when it comes to our race wax, where really you kind of notice number one, racers are finicky. Number two, wax makes all the difference. I mean, that's the surface area that's touching the snow. And so we use a, it's a ceramic nano powder that's actually been licensed from the Department of Defense. And the whole intent is to mimic the properties of a fluorinated wax. And we have a few athletes that have podium at the Olympics on that. We have a couple of X Games athletes that have podium. (08:04): And so at least as far as the quality narrative goes, it works every bit as well as a fluorinated wax. And of course I'm biased here, but I'm willing to die on that hill. And so realistically, for us, especially in the race world, it's getting people to take the step of just try it. And so one of the strategies that we've adopted is we've worked with teams to supply them with practice wax. And so go out, give it a try, ski some gates, let us know what you think. We have the narratives from Alexander killed. It is one of our athletes, and if it works for kilda, it'll likely work for you. But that subjectivity is hard to overcome sometimes. Our whole thing is we just want people to try it. And we're not out here making any crazy assertions. The best thing that we can hear is that you notice no difference between a fluorinated wax and hour wax or a petroleum-based chain loop and R chain loop. At the end of the day, they just have to work.", "token_estimate": 516, "speakers": ["Cole Heilborn", "Dax Myers"], "start_timestamp": "06:45", "end_timestamp": "07:04", "podcast_index": 119, "episode_name": "EP 119: Marketing a Commodity | Dax Myers | MountainFLOW eco-wax", "slug": "ep-119-marketing-a-commodity-dax-myers-mountainflow-eco-wax", "web_url": "https://www.portsidepro.com/podcast-feed/ep-119-marketing-a-commodity-dax-myers-mountainflow-eco-wax", "guest_name": "Dax Myers", "guest_title": null, "categories": [], "short_description": "Dax Myers has worked in ski travel for over a decade. When COVID shut down travel in 2020, he was laid off right as I started grad school. He used that time to make a big huge pivot into the product side of the outdoor industry. His current role entails handling all of the marketing efforts and strategy for mountainFLOW.", "podcast_length": "38:21"}, {"id": "c2165e9a-75c0-4c94-8e1a-1ed1c74700d6", "episode_id": "c9e68a61-0fb5-440b-a765-0cbbd05235f6", "cms_item_id": "68225dfc7bb476527f8c489b", "chunk_index": 4, "content": "Cole Heilborn (09:10): So I've never really thought about the sustainability factor of either of those products. Are there any studies that have been done that show the impact of petroleum-based pr